=================
Telco 20150520
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20150520
         :name: telco-20150520
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20150520_date

      Wednesday, 20th May, 12:00 BST

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g2pa6t2hnwkox4jgjl2p72nqkea

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20150520_agenda

      -  Welcome
      -  Detector developer contacts
      -  CMake and release update
         For the definitions distribution

         -  which targets should be installed
         -  removal of xsltproc from the source tree (there is a binary
            available on the web)
         -  removal of the validation tool

      -  NXmx update
      -  Plan of future activities (code camp and strategic)
      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20150520_minutes

      Present: EW, TSR, HJB, MK, MB, Andreas Foerster, PJ (second half)

      Contacts with LCLS II for file formats made. Touch base Skype call
      arranged. Update at next Telco.

      CMake: Good progress made by Eugen on Definitions. Removal of
      items agreed. However we do need a roadmap for providing a working
      validation tool. NXFeatures are on the way, but still
      experimental.

      Discussion on foreign pull requests: It is great that we get work
      done for free. We need to be careful though about copyright
      (notices are intact).

      NXmx: During code development at DLS question came up to clarify
      named items in nxdl. Handbook says maxOccurs is unbounded, which
      makes no sense for named items. Documentation will be improved
      (Mark B was volunteered). Followup question: What do we do for
      names of items that can have multiple instances name_NNNN
      Consensus was we mostly should not be fixing names in that case. A
      documentation proposal might be coming.

      Andreas proposed a single angle increment value for goniometer
      axes that move during shutterless MX scans. Preference was to have
      a per frame value, with separate start_something and
      end_something. There was a proposal floating around in Diamond at
      one point. Mark B to dig out and forward to HJB, who will process
      that into a template proposal for Dectris. Will revisit next time.

      For those Dectris templates: Can we have a IEEE NaN fill value for
      data that is to be provided outside of the detector later. Looks
      like we can. We   ll check.

      Clarification: Detector origin is supposed to be the first pixel
      in the data. Needs to be documented prominently. Worth checking
      documentation for other omissions. Task for everyone.

      Will discuss other items and relative paths for depends_on at the
      next meeting, which will be `Telco
      20150603 <Telco_20150603.html>`__
