=================
Telco 20180313
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20180313
         :name: telco-20180313
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20180313_date

      Tuesday, 13 March, 16:30 CET (+0100)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20180313_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  Update on multiple detector modules
      -  Presentation on Ray's proposed changes to NXdata
      -  Review of NXDL
         `milestone <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/milestones>`__

         -  `Release
            Procedure <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/wiki/Release-Procedure>`__
            posted on the wiki

      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20180313_minutes

      Present: MK, AB, HJB, TSR, RO, Dieter Weber, Alexander Clausen

      .. rubric:: NeXus for (ST)EM
         :name: Telco_20180313_nexus-for-stem

      Dieter and Alexander presented their ideas and motivation behind
      proposing NeXus additions for electron microscopy. They were
      encouraged to share technical detail with the mailing list for
      comments. It was general consensus that including EM support would
      make sense. RO pointed out that the 'e' in NeXus is currently
      unused.

      .. rubric:: Multiple Detector Modules
         :name: Telco_20180313_multiple-detector-modules

      AB presented a file that uses the envisioned transformation
      hierarchy which can be displayed with the correct geometry in
      DIALS. Some additional attributes have been used (equipment),
      which may or may not be necessary, but could be helpful for
      refinement. Once AB is in a position to share the file, he will
      commit it to the examples repository with a clue what the expected
      geometry is. AB was interested in learning what cnxvalidate would
      say to the file.

      .. rubric:: NXdata
         :name: Telco_20180313_nxdata

      Presentation postponed, hopeing to have PJ on board for it next
      time.

      .. rubric:: Milestone
         :name: Telco_20180313_milestone

      There are still 17 issues lined up for the upcoming milestone.
      That may not be realistic in the remaining planned time frame.

      We did discuss the NXpdb. The work on the NXDL is minimal and
      mostly complete. To be able to work out what to put into the file
      we need to have a well defined conversion into PDB/CIF. This will
      be discussed next time.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20180313_next-meeting

      `Telco 20180403 <Telco_20180403.html>`__
