=================
Telco 20170405
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20170405
         :name: telco-20170405
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20170405_date

      Wednesday, 5 April, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20170405_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  Cspad to NeXus: changes to NXdetector_module
      -  Adding PDB tags to NeXus for NXmx (as per Lund HDRMX meeting)
      -  github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github
         label)

         -  `definitions PRs & issues marked as
            "telco" <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/labels/telco>`__

      -  Github `definitions repo stale
         branches <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/branches/stale>`__
      -  Next meeting

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20170405_minutes

      Present: AB, MK, HJB, PJ, TSR

      .. rubric:: NXdetector_module
         :name: nxdetector_module

      Unfortunately NXdetector_mdoule is not consistent with NXdetector
      etc in that it does not use depends_on directly, but as an
      attribute to module_offset. That does not allow preserving all
      axis names. The desire was to have something the reflects the
      hierarchical nature of the CSPAD modules. At least TSR was
      reluctant to change the existing NXdetector_module for a
      non-functional improvement.

      The situation will be explored further and a proposal will be
      created as a ticket, if needed.

      .. rubric:: PDB
         :name: Telco_20170405_pdb

      All are in agreement that an NXPDB base class would we a good idea
      and we discussed ways in which we would not have to manually
      transcribe the definitions. HJB will bring in experts and raise a
      Github ticket.

      .. rubric:: Github Issues
         :name: Telco_20170405_github-issues

      All telco labelled issues in the definitions repo have been
      discussed briefly and the ones that could not be resolved
      immediately should all be very close to completion.

      .. rubric:: Stale Branches
         :name: stale-branches

      We had 5. One became a pull request. One deletion. One is
      recording potential future changes to application definitions.
      Leaves two to look at at a later point.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20170405_next-meeting

      `Telco 20170426 <Telco_20170426.html>`__
