=================
Telco 20180502
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20180502
         :name: telco-20180502
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20180502_date

      Wednesday, 2 May, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20180502_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  NeXus for STEM
      -  Review of tickets for the upcoming NXDL
         `milestone <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/milestones>`__
      -  Preparations for NIAC this year
      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20180502_minutes

      Present: HJB, MK, TSR, AB

      .. rubric:: STEM
         :name: Telco_20180502_stem

      People in J'lich have created a script that generates an example
      file. This has been posted to the NeXus mailing list with a doodle
      poll to discuss things further. All are invited to participate in
      the poll and the following Hangout call.

      .. rubric:: NXDL Milestone
         :name: nxdl-milestone

      We should aim to release soon, even if a good number of tickets
      are still outstanding. At this point we only consider tickets that
      have code committed against them or that are required for the
      release procedure are. TSR to move all tickets to a new milestone.
      PJ can decide if there are show stoppers for the release process
      that need to be included.

      Removed the NXdata suggestion from the milestone and dropped the
      Telco tag.

      .. rubric:: NIAC at NOBUGS
         :name: Telco_20180502_niac-at-nobugs

      Unfortunately no one joined from BNL and the dates are not yet
      set. NOBUGS planning for themes is in progress, though. For the
      moment we wait until dates for the main conference and satellite
      meetings are set and decide then.

      Brief discussion on whether we should hold a training session like
      we used to until (including) NOBUGS 2012. A lot of emphasis was on
      writing application definitions from scratch and using NAPI.
      Neither are good topics for beginners today.

      We will submit a presentation to the main programme of NOBUGS to
      keep advertising us and HDF5, obviously.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20180502_next-meeting

      `Telco 20180515 <Telco_20180515.html>`__
