=================
Telco 20170130
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20170130
         :name: telco-20170130
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20170130_date

      Monday, 30th January, 16:30 Brussels Time

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20170130_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  github issue of the day
      -  `#511: pixel as NX_length
         update <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/511>`__
         look at work in branch
         https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/compare/NXmx_multimodule_and_dectris_changes
      -  `#486: web site
         redesign <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/486>`__
         demo planned - wiki replacement
      -  `#177: delete NXcharacterization base
         class <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/177>`__
         as suggested on Jul 28, 2015
      -  update on features or interfaces
      -  HDRMX Lund meeting
      -  links to RDA
      -  Membership vote
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20170130_minutes

      Present: EW, AB, HJB, MB, MK, TSR

      .. rubric:: 511
         :name: Telco_20170130_511

      Aaron will have a closer look to make sure this is sane.

      .. rubric:: 486
         :name: Telco_20170130_486

      No show by Ray. But we agreed moving the wiki out of mediawiki
      into jekylls hands. Tobias will work with Freddie to extract the
      content.

      .. rubric:: 177
         :name: 177

      Tobias accidentally deleted NXcharacterization in a failed attempt
      to generate a pull request. No objections.

      .. rubric:: features and interfaces
         :name: features-and-interfaces

      Deferred

      .. rubric:: HDRMX Lund meeting
         :name: hdrmx-lund-meeting

      Herbert invited all interested parties to attend. Mark K suggested
      it is a fun meeting from the Basel experience. Tobias will attend.

      .. rubric:: RDA
         :name: rda

      Someone from Diamond will attend the Alba satellite meeting. Mark
      K supports the idea a few people from the NeXus community should
      go. He'll look into that, as will Tobias.

      .. rubric:: Voting
         :name: Telco_20170130_voting

      Some of the recent online votes carried a clear majority of the
      votes cast, but have failed to reach a quorum of votes from the
      eligible members. The constitution does not see that as a problem
      explicitly, but it would be nice if that was formally permitted.
      We   ll bring that up at the next NIAC.

      .. rubric:: Next meeting
         :name: Telco_20170130_next-meeting

      = `Telco 20170220 <Telco_20170220.html>`__

      .. rubric:: AOB
         :name: Telco_20170130_aob

      Mark B has an example file for the NXevent_data for interested
      people to look at:
      https://hangouts.google.com/hangouts/redirectdest=https%3A%2F%2Fdrive.google.com%2Fopen%3Fid%3D0B8BtsLXcNIF3clBPbFlZNVpKTjg
