=================
Telco 20160824
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20160824
         :name: telco-20160824
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20160824_date

      Wednesday, 24th August, 16:30 Central European Summer Time
      (Copenhagen)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20160824_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda (Tobias may be a few minutes late   )
      -  github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (there is a
         github label now)
      -  further items for NIAC (or code camp) to prepare
      -  THG involvment in Code Camp and NIAC
      -  NAPI update
      -  web site redesign
      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20160824_minutes

      Present: EW, HJB, TSR, MK, FAA, AB

      .. rubric:: Github and NAPI update
         :name: Telco_20160824_github-and-napi-update

      Nothing flagged. The longer running problem with the C++ API for
      the legacy backends is (mostly) resolved and Mantid would like an
      update release. Eugen will attempt to schedule that for next week,

      .. rubric:: NIAC Meeting Preparations
         :name: Telco_20160824_niac-meeting-preparations

      Mark has written a draft and welcomes feedback. It   s in the ticket
      for now, because Tobias forgot to give anyone write access to the
      NIAC repository. (Now fixed.)

      .. rubric:: THG
         :name: thg

      THG has been in contact and we   re asking them to provide us an
      update on the current plans of THG at the upcoming code camp.
      Other topics are OpneMP support, filter repositories and status.

      .. rubric:: web site
         :name: web-site

      No Ray, no update.

      .. rubric:: AOB
         :name: Telco_20160824_aob

      Meeting in Basel is on the 2nd at 9:00 in room 102. HJB is in
      charge of the sandwich supply.

      RDA: There was a sort of survey by THG send round to RDA people on
      the use of    hdf5 in the wild   . Forwarded to the committee mailing
      list.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20160824_next-meeting

      `Telco 20160907 <Telco_20160907.html>`__
