=================
Telco 20220131
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20220131
         :name: telco-20220131
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20220131_date

      Monday, 31st January, 14:00 UTC

      .. rubric:: Connect
         :name: Telco_20220131_connect

      -  ZOOM VC link:
         https://psich.zoom.us/j/65356830562pwd=dERIbEtvWk5mMDE0c1BBc1RmTC9UUT09
      -  Meeting ID: 653 5683 0562
      -  Passcode: 602214

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20220131_agenda

      -  Welcome new members
      -  Review previous meeting minutes and actions: `December
         Telco <Telco_20211215.html>`__
      -  Recent issues on Github (especially those labelled with
         "telco")

         -  `definitions <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue>`__
         -  `code <https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue>`__

      .. rubric:: Present
         :name: Telco_20220131_present

      BW, WdN, HB, HG, TM, LG, RO, UH, AB, MK, SB, PC

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20220131_minutes

      -  PC has moved the ROI base class to contributed and is ready for
         NIAC review. NXbeam is also ready for review.
      -  SB asks for clarification of NXbeam vs NXsource:

         -  NXbeam - at some position
         -  NXsource - at point of beam production

      -  Dectris asked about `end_time_estimated being a required
         field <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/966>`__.
         HB says it is needed in order to make sure that something is
         written about the end-time since the actual end time might be
         omitted if things go wrong. It reflects the importance of being
         able to estimate the dose applied to the sample.

         -  RO suggested including it in the base class for more general
            use.
         -  SB asked if the FIELD_variant would be a viable alternative.
            There is general agreement that it would, but that the
            specific field could carry a more specific meaning than the
            FIELD_variant system.

      -  SB asks if we should generally be pushing new fields from
         application definitions into the corresponding base classes.
         There is general agreement that this is good - we want to bring
         the application definitions closer together whenever we can and
         the base classes are our tools for doing so.
      -  SB aks about showing the candidate changes/additions similar to
         the contributed application definitions.

         -  HB suggests having future release candidate branches.
         -  BW warns not to muddy the waters. There should be a clear
            distinction between what is part of the standard and what
            isn"t. It is OK to give informal hints about which proposals
            are being discussed favourably, but we should not encourage
            usage of any field that has not yet been approved since
            there are often last-minute tweaks that could cause
            already-written fields to contain false information.

      -  Dectris pointed out that `NXdetector documentation refers to
         NXgeometry, which is
         deprecated <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/967>`__.
         PC points out that there is already a pull-request pending.
      -  BW asks about NOBUGS and options for the next NIAC:

         -  MK says that the plan is for a 19-22 September hybrid NOBUGS
            and for a hybrid NIAC the week before.
         -  HB says US people need the NOBUGS info published asap in
            order to get travel permission (tpyically takes 4-6 months).
         -  Still appetite for a virtual NIAC in March - SB is depending
            on it for his projects schedule. BW will quickly send out a
            poll to choose the precise dates.

      -  RO says John Wright has working group with IUCR on synchrotron
         data standardisation and he is recommending NeXus. Newcomers
         are welcome. (IUCR data reporting)
      -  SB asks about storing complex numbers (HB extends to
         quaternoins). MK says it hasn"t been well defined. PC says that
         he sets up a composite HDF dataset to match what h5py does.
      -  SB asks about having more than one signal in an NXdata. RO says
         we have auxilliary_signals and it is implemented in NeXpy.

      BW will send out a poll for the `next telco in mid-late
      February <https://doodle.com/poll/5wz3piy6u6vyyskm>`__ (in
      addition to a poll on the `March NIAC
      dates <https://doodle.com/poll/pe5w6n4whvzbdp6h>`__).
