=================
Telco 20210303
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20210303
         :name: telco-20210303
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20210303_date

      Wednesday, 3rd March, 14:00 UTC

      .. rubric:: Connect
         :name: Telco_20210303_connect

      -  ZOOM VC link:
         https://ukri.zoom.us/j/94651392103pwd=aEVHSW54RVoyMDQxZjNWcGltcWhPdz09
      -  Meeting ID: 946 5139 2103
      -  Password: 007154
      -  Dial in number details: https://ukri.zoom.us/u/adnVUOrsRS
      -  Test connection: https://ukri.zoom.us/test

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20210303_agenda

      -  Welcome new members
      -  Review previous meeting minutes and actions: `January
         Telco <Telco_20210120.html>`__
      -  Discuss upcoming code camp
      -  Issues on Github labelled with "telco"

         -  `definitions <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atelco>`__
         -  `code <https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atelco>`__

      .. rubric:: Present
         :name: Telco_20210303_present

      MK, FA, PC, WG, BW, SB, AB, MO, HB, PJ, RB, BC

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20210303_minutes

      Technology options for the code camp were discussed, such as
      Github Discussion, Slack, zoom channels. Zoom channels looked like
      they may be worth a go. We could just keep all details on issues,
      but this may get a bit cluttered. Action on FA to set up some
      technology options to try. It was agreed that having the issues on
      a GitHub project worked well last time.

      The date of the code camp was fixed for 22nd March, taking place
      on Monday and Tuesday with a sum up session on Monday 29th

      Thank you to PJ for renaming GitHub master -> main in our
      repositories

      BW raised the issue of packaging as he had been looking at
      anaconda and conda-forge. PJ commented that conda-forge was better
      than pip at resolving dependencies and managing binaries, and it
      was used by `BlueSky <https://nsls-ii.github.io/bluesky/>`__. He
      recommended making your own conda channel first. WG shared a link
      showing Conda is also more general than `just
      python <https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda-build/en/latest/resources/compiler-tools.html>`__.
      It was suggested that having cnxalidate on conda would be useful -
      maybe a code camp task nexpy is `already available on
      conda-forge <https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/nexpy>`__ and punx
      is on the `nsls2 forge <https://anaconda.org/nsls2forge/punx>`__.
      WG shared a link to the `Spack <https://spack.io/>`__ package
      manager that has been used at ORNL.

      PJ mentioned a question he had been asked regarding recording
      processing details from EPICS area detector plugins in NeXus
      files. Choices were as an NXnote or NXprocess. It was agreed that
      for this case NXprocess was appropriate as the pluguns could
      provide sufficient details.

      .. rubric:: Actions
         :name: Telco_20210303_actions

      FA: set up some technology options for people to try

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20210303_next-meeting
