The NeXus API is distributed under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License. For information on using the NeXus API see the [[Application Program Interface]] page. To report or view problems/bugs/suggestions/enhancement requests goto our [[IssueReporting]] system.

==Requirements==
===External Libraries===
Since NeXus uses HDF as the underlying binary format, it is necessary first to install the HDF subroutine libraries and include files before installing the NeXus API. It is not usually necessary to download the HDF source code since precompiled object libraries exist for a variety of operating systems including Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, and various other flavors of Unix. Check the HDF web pages for more information:
*http://www.hdfgroup.org/
Version 3.0.0 of the NeXus API allows the reading and writing of NeXus files in XML. This uses the Mini-XML library, developed by Michael Sweet, which is also available as a precompiled binary library for several operating systems. Please ensure that you install version 2.2.2 or later. Check the Mini-XML web pages for more information:
*http://www.easysw.com/~mike/mxml/

==NeXus Source Code Distribution==

The NeXus API may be built from source using one of the installation kits linked below. 
Depending on which low-level file formats shall be supported, one or several of the following libraries are required:
* HDF4: packages '''hdf''' and '''hdf-devel''' on Fedora Core, '''libhdf4g''' on Debian
* HDF5: packages '''hdf5''' and '''hdf5-devel''' on Fedora Core, '''libhdf5''' on Debian
* MXML: packages '''libmxml1''' and '''libmxml-devel''' on Debian, '''mxml''' and '''mxml-devel''' on Fedora Core. Note that libmxml1 on Debian is curently version 2.0 and will not work; until this is updated you need to download version 2.2.2 from either http://www.easysw.com/~mike/mxml or http://cilibrar.com/~cilibrar/projsup/nex4/
The compilation uses the GNU Autotools. Download the appropriate gzipped tar file, unpack it, and run the standard configure procedure from the resulting nexus directory. For example, for version 3.0.0
<pre>
% tar -zxvf nexus-3.0.0.tar.gz
% cd nexus-3.0.0
% ./configure 
% make
% make install
</pre>
To find out how to customize the installation, ''e.g.'', to choose different installation directories, type
<pre>
% ./configure --help
</pre>
To prevent trouble with unneeded drivers, specify e.g.
<pre>
% ./configure --without-java
</pre>
See the README file for further instructions.
*[http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/ Download the NeXus API Source Code]
*Information on the NeXus Code [[SubversionServer]]

==NeXus Binary Distributions==
===Linux RPM Distribution Kits===
A NeXus binary RPM (nexus-*.i386.rpm) contains ready compiled NeXus libraries whereas a source RPM (nexus-*.src.rpm) needs to be compiled into a binary RPM before it can be installed. In general, a binary RPM is installed using the command
<pre>
rpm -Uvh file.i386.rpm
</pre>
or, to change installation location from the default (/usr/local) area, using
<pre>
rpm -Uvh --prefix /alternative/directory file.i386.rpm
</pre>
If the binary RPMS are not the correct architecture for you (e.g. you need x86_64 rather than i386) or the binary RPM requires libraries (e.g. HDF4) that you do not have, you can instead rebuild a source RPM (.src.rpm) to generate the correct binary RPM for you machine. Download the source RPM file and then run
<pre>
rpmbuild --rebuild file.src.rpm
</pre>
This should generate a binary RPM file which you can install as above. Be careful if you think about specifying an alternative buildroot for rpmbuild by using --buildroot option as the "buildroot" directory tree will get remove (so --buildroot / is a really bad idea). Only change buildroot it if the default area turns out not to be big enough to compile the package.

The nexus binary RPM requires hdf4, hdf5 and mxml to already be installed. Some or all of the following packages may be required in addition to the NeXus binary RPM:
{| {{Tablestyle}}
|-
! {{Headcellstyle}} width="20%" | SZIP
| align="center" width="40%" | Binary RPM [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/szip-2.0-1.i386.rpm i386] 
| align="center" width="40%" | [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/szip-2.0-1.src.rpm Source RPM]
|-
! {{Headcellstyle}} | HDF4
| align="center" | Binary RPM [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/hdf-4.2.1-1.i386.rpm i386]
| align="center" | [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/hdf-4.2.1-1.src.rpm Source RPM]
|-
! {{Headcellstyle}} | HDF5
| align="center" | Binary RPM [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/hdf5-1.6.4-1.i386.rpm i386]
| align="center" | [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/hdf5-1.6.4-1.src.rpm Source RPM]
|-
! {{Headcellstyle}} | MXML
| align="center" | Binary RPM [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/mxml-2.2.2-1.i386.rpm i386] [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/mxml-2.2.2-1.x86_64.rpm x86_64]
| align="center" | [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/mxml-2.2.2-1.src.rpm Source RPM]
|-
! {{Headcellstyle}} | NeXus
| align="center" | Binary RPM [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/nexus-4.0.0-0.i386.rpm i386]
| align="center" | [http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/rpm/nexus-4.0.0-0.src.rpm Source RPM]
|}

If you are using [http://fedora.redhat.com/ Fedora Core] Linux, pre-built hdf packages are contained in the fedora-extras repository and can be installed with
<pre>
yum install hdf hdf-devel hdf5 hdf5-devel mxml mxml-devel
</pre>

*[http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/ Download NeXus API in RPM (binary and/or source) format]
*Information on the NeXus Code [[SubversionServer]]

===Microsoft Windows Install Kit===
[http://download.nexusformat.org/kits/windows/ Windows Installer kits for NeXus]

===CYGWIN Kits===
HDF4 is not supported under CYGWIN - both HDF5 and MXML are supported and can be downloaded and built as usual. When configuring HDF5 you should explicitly pass a prefix to the configure script to make sure the libraries are installed in a "usual" location i.e.
<pre>
./configure --prefix=/usr/local/hdf5
</pre>
Otherwise you will have to use the '''--with-hdf5=/path/to/hdf5''' option later when configuring NeXus to tell it where to look for hdf5. 

After building hdf5, configure and build NeXus using the instructions for [[#NeXus Source Code Distribution| source code distribution]] above.