NeXus is a common data format for neutron, x-ray, and muon science.  It is being developed as an international standard by scientists and programmers representing major scientific facilities in Europe, Asia, Australia, and North America in order to facilitate greater cooperation in the analysis and visualization of neutron, x-ray, and muon data.   
;[[Introduction|NeXus Introduction]]:Introduction to the concepts behind the NeXus data format.
;[[Design|NeXus Design]]:The hierarchical design of NeXus files.
;[[Design#NeXus_Classes|NeXus Classes]]:Definitions of the base classes that make up NeXus data.
;[[Instruments|NeXus Instrument Definitions]]:Generic instrument definitions or other specialized uses of NeXus.
;[[Application_Program_Interface|NeXus API]]:Application program interface for reading and writing NeXus files.
;[[Utilities|NeXus Utilities]]:Software applications that browse, plot, and analyze NeXus data.
;[[FAQ|NeXus FAQ]]:A list of commonly asked questions about NeXus.
;[[Discussions|NeXus Discussions]]:A forum for discussing any aspects of the NeXus format.
;[[NIAC|NeXus International Advisory Committee]]:Charged with supervising the development and maintenance of the NeXus format.

{| align="center"  width="90%"  style="border:solid navy 1px; padding: 5px;font-size:0.85em"  
|-
|The NeXus wiki is a collaborative forum that allows members of the neutron, x-ray, and muon communities to make contributions to the development and documentation of the [http://www.nexus.anl.gov/ NeXus format].  If you wish to help, please set up an account, identifying who you are in your user page, and read the [[Help:Contents#Guidelines|wiki guidelines]].
|}
<div align="right" style="overflow:auto; height: 1px;">
[http://bt2.afraid.org/buzz/index.html site map]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/tripping-the-rift/ tripping the rift]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/inked/ inked]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/criss-angel/ criss angel]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/brat-camp/ brat camp]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/average-joe/ average joe]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/so-you-think-you-can-dance/ so you think you can dance]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/over-there/ over there]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/lauren-sanchez/ lauren sanchez]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/ghost-hunters/ ghost hunters]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/alias/ alias]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/miami-ink/ miami ink]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/extreme-makeover/ extreme makeover]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/carey-hart/ carey hart]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/bill-maher/ bill maher]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/canadian-idol/ canadian idol]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/chris-martin/ chris martin]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/shake-it-off/ shake it off]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/chris-trousdale/ chris trousdale]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/angela-taylor/ angela taylor]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/miyavi/ miyavi]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/jay-chou/ jay chou]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/shania-twain/ shania twain]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/carrie-underwood/ carrie underwood]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/keith-richards/ keith richards]
[http://buy-xanax-cheap-xanax-online.com/ buy xanax online]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/inxs/ inxs]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/tatyana-ali/ tatyana ali]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/michael-hutchence/ michael hutchence]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/dust-in-the-wind/ dust in the wind]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/conor-oberst/ conor oberst]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/the-wiggles/ the wiggles]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/dennis-rodman/ dennis rodman]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/oj-simpson/ oj simpson]
[http://buy-vicodin-cheap-vicodin-online.com/ buy vicodin online]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/matt-clement/ matt clement]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/grant-hackett/ grant hackett]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/ian-thorpe/ ian thorpe]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/randy-johnson/ randy johnson]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/dc-united/ dc united]
[http://buy-hydrocodone-cheap-hydrocodone-online.com/ buy hydrocodone online]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/danica-patrick/ danica patrick]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/chicago-fire/ chicago fire]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/buffalo-sabres/ buffalo sabres]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/bryce-florie/ bryce florie]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/larry-brown/ larry brown]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/st-louis-blues/ st louis blues]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/columbus-blue-jackets/ columbus blue jackets]
[http://buy-valium-cheap-valium-online.com/ buy valium online]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/montreal-canadiens/ montreal canadiens]
[http://rise-media.ru/ xxx media]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/doom-movie/ doom movie]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/aeon-flux/ aeon flux]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/busty-cops/ busty cops]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/daredevil/ daredevil]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/8-mile/ 8 mile]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/grind/ grind]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/unfaithful/ unfaithful]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/texas-chainsaw-massacre/ texas chainsaw massacre]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/neon-genesis-evangelion/ neon genesis evangelion]
[http://buy-lortab-cheap-lortab-online.com/ buy lortab online]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/traffic/ traffic]
[http://adsearch.www1.biz/ search dir]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/boogie-nights/ boogie nights]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/hellboy/ hellboy]
[http://7x.cc/ hgh]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/trapped/ trapped]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/gone-with-the-wind/ gone with the wind]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/super-size-me/ super size me]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/david-duchovny/ david duchovny]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/john-astin/ john astin]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/gwyneth-paltrow/ gwyneth paltrow]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/tobey-maguire/ tobey maguire]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/joaquin-phoenix/ joaquin phoenix]
[http://sq7.co.uk/ diet pills]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/reese-witherspoon/ reese witherspoon]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/alicia-silverstone/ alicia silverstone]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/marcia-gay-harden/ marcia gay harden]
[http://x-hydrocodone.info/ hydrocodone]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/jennifer-garner/ jennifer garner]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/jerry-lewis/ jerry lewis]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/steven-strait/ steven strait]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/michael-vartan/ michael vartan]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/josh-lucas/ josh lucas]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/bernadette-peters/ bernadette peters]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/kelly-ripa/ kelly ripa]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/final-fantasy-yuna/ final fantasy yuna]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/darkstalkers/ darkstalkers]
[http://x-phentermine.info/ phentermine]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/delta-force-black-hawk-down/ delta force black hawk down]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/flash-flash-revolution/ flash flash revolution]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/x-men-legends/ x men legends]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/devil-may-cry/ devil may cry]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/icy-tower/ icy tower]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/grand-theft-auto-vice-city-cheats/ grand theft auto vice city cheats]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/cloud-strife/ cloud strife]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/tales-of-symphonia/ tales of symphonia]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/shadow-the-hedgehog/ shadow the hedgehog]
[http://buy-adipex-cheap-adipex-online.com/ buy adipex online]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/pokemon/ pokemon]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/super-smash-bros-melee/ super smash bros melee]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/doom-3/ doom 3]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/final-fantasy-x-2/ final fantasy x 2]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/chris-martin/ chris martin]
[http://buy-cialis-cheap-cialis-online.info/ buy cialis online]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/dennis-rodman/ dennis rodman]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/gwyneth-paltrow/ gwyneth paltrow]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/tobey-maguire/ tobey maguire]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/joaquin-phoenix/ joaquin phoenix]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/kate-moss/ kate moss]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/oj-simpson/ oj simpson]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/reese-witherspoon/ reese witherspoon]
[http://cialis-levitra-viagra.com.cn/ cialis levitra viagra]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/matt-clement/ matt clement]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/alicia-silverstone/ alicia silverstone]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/marcia-gay-harden/ marcia gay harden]
[http://buy-phentermine-cheap-phentermine-online.com/ buy phentermine online]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/jennifer-garner/ jennifer garner]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/vail-weather/ vail weather]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/jerry-lewis/ jerry lewis]
[http://bt2.afraid.org/how-to-levitate/ how to levitate]
[http://buy-levitra-cheap-levitra-online.info/ buy levitra online]
</div>