==Present==
* Paul Kienzle (NIST)
* Nick Maliszewskyj (NIST)
* Stephen Cotrell (RAL)
* Ron Ghosh (ILL)
* Mark Konnecke (PSI)
* Stefan Flemming (HMI)

==Decisions==

1. A scan is a set of tuples.

Scan dimension is the slowest moving dimension, and is of length np.

2. Components of the tuples are stored in separate vectors in the instrument definition.

Components/environment parameters which can change during the scan may have an additional scan dimension, as will monitors and detectors.  Scalars become vectors.

The vectors are stored where they usually are in the instrument definition, and linked to from NXdata.  We rejected the idea of storing an arbitrary state in the instrument definition and storing the vectors in a new NXscan class even though this would mean that further entries in the file could link to the instrument rather than having to copy all the details of the instrument definition.

3. Multidetector systems have an additional dimension, nd the number of detectors.

Some instruments have multiple moving detectors, e.g., separated by 5 degrees.  If these are fixed relative to each other and do not have an analyzer then the resulting bank of detectors can be treated as a linear detector with gaps and no special encoding is needed.

If the detectors can move relative to each other, or if they have separate analyzers, then
we need a bank of detectors and analyzers.  The Q/HKL coordinates are defined in NXsample as usual, but there is an additional leading dimension of length nd for each detector angle and analyzer.

4. Optional components such as polarizers and analyzers are listed.

Optional components possibly appear on the particular class of instrument though not required.  Software which claims to fully support e.g. monochromatic reflectometers should treat polarizers and analyzers correctly.

5. Sample contains optional |Q| for powder data samples with no HKL.

6. Agree on the definition of sample.

7. Agree to not included scan range metadata in the file.

Applications which want to help the user select the appropriate runs will need to keep track of the range of data in the datafiles themselves.  This may be part of the data catalogue at the institution.

==To be decided==

* How are detectors associated with detector number in the bank of analyzer case?  Or is there only one detector with an additional dimension?

* Decide if we are using names such as precollimator_analyzer or if we are using component index instead to figure out where things are.

* How do we know it is a scan?  What about scan intent, such as spec/back/slit?

* TAS

* Reflectometry

* SAS

==General concerns==

* Summary data

* treated data

* excluded data

* resolution function

* ...