==NIAC Meeting - October 2006==
The next meeting of the  [[NIAC | NeXus International Advisory Committee]] will be held at the [http://www.lbl.gov Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory] near San Francisco, California, USA. The meeting will be held from October 5 to 6, 2006, immediately following [http://nobugs2006.lbl.gov/ NOBUGS 2006].

===List of Attendees===

If you are interested in attending 
(and are not already on the 
[[NIAC2006LBL_attendees|list of attendees]]), 
contact [[User:Andy Gotz|Andrew Götz]].

===Start of the Meeting===

* You are responsible for your own breakfast and travel to the lab. In theory there are many people staying at the DoubleTree and the Durant so carpooling is encouraged.
* Arrive at the badging office and they will give you a visitor badge and a "blue triangle" parking pass. For those of you without a  car there is a lab shuttle bus that will take you from there to building two (2).
* We will be starting at 8:30 am (pacific time) in building two (2) room 100B. This is the biggest room and will be where refreshments are served.

===Agenda===
====Proposed Agenda Items====
* Discuss NeXus collaborating with imgCIF. see [http://www.medsbio.org/ MEDSBIO proposal] 
* Request institutes from the NeXus community sponsor a full-time technical secretary for next 12-24 months.
* Institutes that write NeXus files are '''data providers.'''. NeXus provides an interface between '''data providers''' and '''data requirers'''. Discuss if the NIAC constitution should be change to allow data requirers e.g. DANSE to have representation on the NIAC as a stakeholder that requires NeXus.
* SCAN definition similar to TOFRAW definition
* NXcharacterization needs to be formalized
* Finalize [[Archive_Definition|archive definition]]

====Tabled Until Next Time====
* Moving from [[Metaformat|Meta-DTDs]] to XML Schema. see [http://www.webel.com.au/nexml NeXML proposal]

====October 5====
* 08:30 Welcome and Introduction
* First buisiness
** Review of NIAC'2006ILL minutes
** [[Membership Dates|Renew members]]
** Add new members
*** Jens-Uwe Hoffmann - Hahn-Meitner-Institut Berlin
*** Paul Kienzle - DANSE
* Triage
** Define missing agenda items
** Vote on things already ready for voting
** Define working groups and divide items
* 09:30 break
* 09:45 Ratify instrument definitions
* 12:00 break for lunch
* 13:00 Ratify instrument definitions
* 15:00 break
* 15:30 split into groups

====October 6====
* 08:30 Small items (see [[NIAC2006LBL RoadMap|Roadmap]])
* ??:?? Triage
** Define missing agenda items
** Vote on things already ready for voting
** Define working groups and divide items

===General Information===

'''Accomodations'''

LBL has a list of housing in the area:
[http://www.lbl.gov/Workplace/near-our-shuttle.html http://www.lbl.gov/Workplace/near-our-shuttle.html]

The NOBUGS 2006 conference suggests two hotels:
[http://nobugs2006.lbl.gov/index.php?content=Lodging http://nobugs2006.lbl.gov/index.php?content=Lodging]

====Room Reservations====

For help in locating the buildings with the meeting rooms,
please refer to the [[http://www.lbl.gov/Workplace/lab-site-map.html LBL campus map]].

{| {{Tablestyle}}
|-   
! {{Headcellstyle}} | room
! {{Headcellstyle}} | session
! {{Headcellstyle}} | network
! {{Headcellstyle}} | projector?
! {{Headcellstyle}} | 10/5
! {{Headcellstyle}} | 10/6
|-   
! Bldg. 2-100B
| Plenary
| wireless
| no
| 7:00 AM to 6:30 PM
| 7:00 AM to 6:30 PM
|-   
! Bldg. 6-2202
| Breakout
| wired
| yes
| 12:00 - 6:30 PM
| 7:00 AM - 6:30 PM
|-   
! Bldg. 7-211
| Breakout
| wired
| no
| 12:00 - 6:30 PM
| 7:00 AM - 6:30 PM
|}

===Working Groups===

====API/Technical Issues====
* Improving NeXus internal code documention on private structures and functions. Only API developer needs to know about these, but at the moment the knowledge is restricted to a few people. The existing in-code documentation needs to be tidied up and it would be a good idea if programs such as [http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/index.html Doxygen] could parse it.
* [[Proposal to Simplify Nexus]] to increase its adoption for analysis programs. Proposal by ILL+ESRF
* Move from the current [http://www.nongnu.org/cvs/ CVS] (for version control) / [http://www.bugzilla.org/ Bugzilla] (for bugs/issues) system to using [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] / [http://trac.edgewall.org/ TRAC]. Freddie has set up two sites at [http://svn.nexusformat.org http://svn.nexusformat.org] and [http://trac.nexusformat.org http://trac.nexusformat.org] for testing
* Move mailing list to nexusformat.org
* Determine location to store definitions
* Design and implement a way to deal with having approved definitions and a way to modify a working copy on the website