The 2014 plenary NIAC meeting and NeXus Code Camp is scheduled for December 2014.
Both meetings will take place at [http://www.aps.anl.gov The Advanced Photon Source], Argonne National Laboratory, IL, USA (near Chicago).  
This time, the NIAC meeting is not being held in conjunction and proximity with [http://www.nobugsconference.org/Main_Page NOBUGS] which is held in Japan in September.

Dates are:
* NeXus code camp -> Monday, 2014-12-15 - Wednesday, 2014-12-17
* NIAC Meeting -> Thursday, 2014-12-18 - Friday, 2014-12-19


==Location and Accomodation==

=== location of Meetings ===

The Code Camp and the NIAC meeting will take place at the Advanced Photon Source, building 437, conference room C010

;map: https://goo.gl/maps/OizgQ

=== Recommended Lodging ===
[https://www.anlgh.org/ Argonne Guest House, Argonne, Illinois, USA] 

<pre>
Argonne Guest House
Argonne National Laboratory
9700 S. Cass Avenue - Building 460
Argonne, IL 60439
Phone: 800-632-8990 or 630-739-6000
Fax: 630-739-1000
</pre>

Argonne Guest House
<br> Argonne National Laboratory
<br> 9700 S. Cass Avenue - Building 460
<br> Argonne, IL 60439
<br> USA

Please reserve your own rooms directly with the hotel:
;Web site: http://www.anlgh.org/
;telephone: +1 - 800-632-8990, +1 - 630-739-6000
;fax: +1 - 630-739-1000
;map: https://goo.gl/maps/SCwja
;General information: [http://www.aps.anl.gov/About/Visiting/ Visiting the APS], http://www.aps.anl.gov/About/Visiting

=== Directions ===

* airport:
** Chicago O'Hare (ORD): international
** Chicago Midway (MDW): domestic
** Milwaukee, WI Mitchell Field (MKE): distant alternative

* taxi: 
** Call for a taxi pickup only after you have all your bags
** Must be a taxi that goes to Chicago suburbs
** suburban taxi will pickup in second lane of arrivals at Chicago O'Hare airport
** http://www.americantaxi.com, 1-800-244-1177 (automated system)
** ... others ...
* airport bus: http://www.airportexpress.com/shuttles/ohare.html
* commuter train: 
** inconvenient

== Practical Matters ==

=== Registration ===

;Step 1: Register with the APS as a visitor to start the process. 
;Step 2: Send an email to jemian@anl.gov announcing your plan to attend.
;Step 3: Confirm your name appears on the official [[NIAC2014#List_of_Attendees | list of attendees]] below.

==== APS Visitor registration ====

Follow the <b>STEPS FOR VISITORS</b> provided: http://www.aps.anl.gov/Users/Site_Access/

You must register <b>as an APS Visitor</b> in advance (to identify matters related to Passport, Visa, and ANL Site Access) or you should not expect access to the ANL site. If asked, indicate that you are visiting ''Pete Jemian''.

For the paperwork of all international visitors, we need each degree, year earned, and institution name.  Additionally for certain visas, we need additional information:

;F1 visa: we need the I-20 number and expiration date.
;J1 visa: we need the DS-2019 number and expiry date.
;H1 visa: we need the I797 number and expiry date.

=== Host ===

* Pete Jemian
** Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National Laboratory
** email: jemian@anl.gov
** office phone: 1-630-252-3189 (forwards to mobile)
** Google voice: +1-847-859-9775 (forwards to mobile)

=== Costs ===

*Conference fee: no fee
** food at morning and afternoon breaks will be provided
** perhaps (no guarantee) a small meeting souvenir
* regular meals (breakfast, lunch, dinner) will be traveler's expense

=== Equipment ===

{| border="1"
|-
! item || quantity || who provides?
|-
| projector & screen
| align="center" | &nbsp;
| align="center" | host
|-
| LCD displays, keyboards, & mice 
| align="center" | &nbsp;
| align="center" | host
|-
| 120 VAC, 60 Hz, US-style 3-prong extension cords
| align="center" | sufficient
| align="center" | host
|-
| foreign electrical power adapter
| align="center" | as needed
| align="center" | traveler
|-
| Wi-Fi connections
| align="center" | sufficient
| align="center" | hotel
|}


==List of Attendees==


{| border="1"
! Name || Company/Institute || Code Camp (15-17) || NIAC (18-19) || Arrival date || Departure date || ANL visitor || intl. paperwork || ANL gate pass
|-
| [[User:Pete Jemian|Pete Jemian]] 
|| Advanced Photon Source, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, IL, USA
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| host
|| host
|| local
|| n/a
|| local
|-
| [[User:Herbert Bernstein|Herbert Bernstein]]
|| Dowling College, NY, USA
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| 2014-12-14
|| 2014-12-19
|| complete
|| n/a
|| complete
|-
||[[User:Mark Koennecke|Mark Koennecke]]
|| Paul Scherrer Institute, Switzerland
|| YES
|| YES
|| 2014-12-14
|| 2014-12-20
|| submitted
|| ...
|| ...
|-
||[[User:Mark Basham|Mark Basham]]
|| Diamond Light Source, UK
|| YES
|| YES
|| 2014-12-14
|| 2014-12-19
|| submitted
|| ...
|| ...
|-
||[[User:Steve Cottrell|Steve Cottrell]]
|| ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK
|| NO
|| YES
|| 2014-12-17
|| 2014-12-19
|| submitted
|| ...
|| ...
|-
||[[User:Eugenwintersberger|Eugen Wintersberger]]
|| DESY, Germany 
|| YES
|| YES
|| 2014-12-14
|| 2014-12-19
|| submitted
|| ...
|| ...
|-
||[[User:Aaron Brewster|Aaron Brewster]]
|| Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, USA
|| NO
|| YES
|| 2014-12-17
|| 2014-12-19
|| complete
|| n/a
|| complete
|-
| [[User:Ray Osborn|Ray Osborn]] 
|| Argonne National Laboratory, USA
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| ANL staff
|| ANL staff
|| local
|| n/a
|| local
|-
||[[User:Jiro Suzuki|Jiro Suzuki]]
|| J-PARC, Japan
|| NO
|| YES
|| 2014-12-17
|| 2014-12-20
|| submitted
|| ...
|| ...
|-
||[[User:Tobias Richter|Tobias Richter]]
|| European Spallation Source, Sweden
|| YES
|| YES
|| 2014-12-14
|| 2014-12-19
|| submitted
|| ...
|| ...
|-
||[http://www.psi.ch/lsc/benjamin-watts Ben Watts]
|| Swiss Light Source, Switzerland
|| YES
|| YES
|| 2014-12-14
|| 2014-12-19
|| submitted
|| ...
|| ...
|-
|}

==Agenda==

Both meetings are taking place in building 437, conference room C010, starting at 9am. 
Evening meal is scheduled for 7pm each day

An afternoon group excursion is being considered.

=== Schedule ===

The schedule overview:
{| border="1"
|-
! Day || date || activity
|-
| Sunday
| 2014-12-14
| Code Camp participants arrive
|-
| Monday
| 2014-12-15, 
| NeXus Code Camp, Building 437, room C010
|-
| Tuesday
| 2014-12-16
| NeXus Code Camp, 437-C010
|-
| Wednesday
| 2014-12-17
| NeXus Code Camp, 437-C010
|-
| Wednesday
| 2014-12-17
| NIAC members arrive
|-
| Thursday
| 2014-12-18
| NIAC Meeting, 437-C010
|-
| Friday
| 2014-12-19, ends at 1:00 PM
| NIAC Meeting, 437-C010
|-
| Saturday
| 2014-12-20
| checkout 
|}

Here is the daily schedule (tentative):

{| border="1"
|-
! time || description || comments
|-
| 9:00 - 10:15 AM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 10:15 - 10:45 AM
| align="center" | morning break
| align="center" | (included)
|-
| 10:45 AM - 12:00 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 12:00  - 1:15 PM
| align="center" | lunch
| align="center" | offsite, traveler's expense
|-
| 1:15 - 3:15 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 3:15 - 3:30 PM
| align="center" | afternoon break
| align="center" | (included)
|-
| 3:30 - 5:00 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 5:00 - 6:00 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | daily summary (plenary)
|}


Notes:
# late-afternoon wrap-up (plenary) each day
# morning and afternoon breaks will be included in amenities charge
# breakfast, lunch, dinner will be in a local restaurant at traveler's expense

== Meetings ==

=== NeXus Code Camp ===

See [[NIAC2014_CodeCamp]] for specific Agenda and notes

=== NIAC Meeting ===

See [[NIAC2014_Meeting]] for specific Agenda, notes, and Minutes