The code camp allows existing NeXus developers to meet and work together on developing software or resolving particular NeXus design issues. 

See [[NIAC2014]] for administrative details about this meeting.

== Topics to be Considered ==

A subset will be chosen on the first day of the meeting.

Walk through
* [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues Issues] posted on the [https://github.com/nexusformat NeXus GitHub] repository
* Proposals and other topics listed on the [[Discussions]] page
* Close issues that are of minor importance and not of particular concern to anybody and not likely to be resolved any soon.

Choose topics from the preliminary list below:
* Procedural questions:
** How to organize proposals and discussions
** How to remove ballast, when to break compatibility, versioning and validation
* Fundamental design issues:
** Clarify rank specification
*** related to [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/266 #266]: implement difference in rules between base classes and application definitions
** Discuss [[Objects or Interfaces|NeXus interfaces]]
** [[How to avoid name clashes during future extensions of the Nexus standard]]
** Optional contents in application definitions?
** Discuss lightweight tags versus application definitions
** Rules for multi file NeXus files
* Class specifications:
** NXformula?
** NXdata: Assigning axes to data once more again
** Prepare contributed definitions for ratification
* Work on software:
** validation tools (nxvalidate or NXvalidate): state (cf [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/169 #169], [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/251 #251]), further development, WWW service
** New NAPI release?
** [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/230 #230]: use cmake to build Sphinx documentation
* Finish support for attribute arrays (who proposed this? please provide details!)
* Off-site excursion to -tba-

== Agenda ==

To be decided on the first day of the 2014 Code Camp.