=NIAC Meeting - September 2007=
The next meeting of the  [[NIAC | NeXus International Advisory Committee]] will be held at the [http://www.hmi.de Hahn-Meitner-Institut] in Berlin, Germany. The meeting is planned for September 24-26, 2007.

== Location ==

In the [http://www.hmi.de/hmi/gebaeudeplan.pdf map of the area] you find the gate called "Pforte". On the backsite is the cantina. The guest house is in building U. The room LS 206 is in the building LS on the first flour and sign with "BENSC Seminarraum".

The office of Jens-Uwe Hoffmann is in A 241 (1st flour).

== Accommodation ==
Accommodation will be at the HMI guest-house on the [http://www.hmi.de/hmi/standorte_en.html#Wannsee HMI campus Wannsee]. The rate for a single room is for the first overnight stay 34€ and 24€ for every following one (double room 52€/34€). ''It is not possible to pay with credit card, sorry.'' [[User:Jens-Uwe Hoffmann | Jens-Uwe Hoffmann]] [mailto:hoffmann-j@hmi.de] is you local contact for reservation and access authorization, please send your name, address and your '''passport number'''. It is not possible to pay by credit card, sorry.

Arriving information [http://www.hmi.de/hmi/wegwannsee_en.html to Berlin Wannsee].

'''Sunday Special'''

On Sunday you must take the bus from the station in Wannsee to Wilhelmplatz with line 118. 

To plan your trip from the airport Tegel to the HMI use this link

http://www.fahrinfo-berlin.de/Fahrinfo/bin/query.bin/en?from=Flughafen%20Tegel%20%26%23x0028;Berlin%26%23x0029;&to=Wilhelmplatz%20%26%23x0028;Berlin%26%23x0029;&REQ0JourneyStopsSA1=1&REQ0JourneyStopsZA1=1&&)

you have only set your departure time/date and click the button "search connection".


Please note, you must walk form the bus stop Wilhelmplatz, straightforward on the Schäferstraße and Glienicker Staße to the end.

http://maps.google.de/maps?f=d&hl=de&geocode=&saddr=52.412969,13.141859&daddr=Glienicker+Stra%C3%9Fe+100,+Wannsee+14109+Berlin,+Berlin,+Berlin,+Deutschland&mrcr=0&mrsp=0&sz=16&mra=dme&sll=52.411988,13.139091&sspn=0.008874,0.016437&ie=UTF8&z=16&om=1

Check-in for the guest house is at the HMI gate. There you get you badge. 

The cantina is open for breakfast at 8:30 on Monday.

== Conference Fee ==

We impose a conference fee of about 100€ per person for coffee, lunch, etc. For bank information follow this link: [http://www.hmi.de/bensc/misc/flat-cone/nexus/NIACinfo.html http://www.hmi.de/bensc/misc/flat-cone/nexus/NIACinfo.html]

==List of Attendees==

If you are interested in attending (and not already on the [[NIAC2007_attendees|list of attendees]]), contact [[User:Jens-Uwe Hoffmann | Jens-Uwe Hoffmann]].


==Proposed Agenda==

=== Timetable ===

All topics that are discussed within the whole group will meet in LS 206.

{| border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpedding="10"
! align="center" colspan="3" | Monday 24th September 2007 
|-
! Time || LS 206 || LR 204
|-
| 9:00 - 9:15 || Welcome and Introduction || 
|-
| 9:15 - 12:00 || align="center" colspan="2" | [[NIAC2007#M1: General Business|M1: General Business]]
|-
| 12:00 - 13:00 || align="center" colspan="2" | Lunch
|-
| 13:00 - 18:00 || align="center" colspan="2" | [[NIAC2007#M2: Policy Discussion|M2: Policy Discussion]]
|-
| || align="center" colspan="2" | Dinner
|-
| colspan="3" |
|-
! align="center" colspan="3" | Tuesday 25th September 2007 
|-
! Time || LS 206 || LR 204
|-
| 9:00 - 10:00 || align="center" | T1 || align="center" | T2
|-
| 10:00 - 12:00 || align="center" | T3 || align="center" | T4
|-
| 12:00 - 13:00 || align="center" colspan="2" | Lunch
|-
| 13:00 - 16:00 || align="center" | T5 || align="center" | T6
|-
| 16:00 - 17:00 || align="center" colspan="2" | [[NIAC2007#Public_Talk | Public Talk (auditorium)]]
|-
| 20:00 || align="center" colspan="2" | [[NIAC2007#Conference_Dinner | Dinner (Mitte)]]
|-
| colspan="3" |
|-
! align="center" colspan="3" | Wednesday 26th September 2007 
|-
! Time || LS 206 || LR 204
|-
| 9:00 - 10:30 || align="center" | W1 || align="center" | W2
|-
| 10:30 - 12:00 || align="center" | W3 || align="center" | W4
|-
| 12:00 - 13:00 || align="center" colspan="2" | Lunch
|-
| 13:00 - 15:00 || align="center" | W5 || align="center" | W6
|-
| 15:00 || Closing discussion ||
|-
|       || [[NIAC2007#Visit_the_BER_II | Visit the BER II]] ||
|}

==== M1: General Business ====
* Welcome and Introduction 
* Review of NIAC'2006LBL minutes
** [[NIACActionItems|NIAC Action Items]]
** [http://trac.nexusformat.org/definitions/report/3 Open tickets]
* [[Membership Dates|Renew members]]
* Elect chair, executive secretary, and technical committee chair
* Path forward for NeXus - overview
** Future of NAPI
** Future of definitions
*** v2.1 - additions to current definitions
*** v3.0 - what is this
==== M2: Policy discussion ====
* Documenting policy
* General policy questions
** [http://www.unidata.ucar.edu/software/netcdf/ netCDF]
** [http://www.iucr.org/iucr-top/cif/imgcif/index.html imgCIF]
** [http://www.strainet.org strainet]
** ASI^2
* Definition policy questions
** metaDTD vs Schema (XSD)
** Definition URL declaration
** Object oriented definitions, [[Media:NeXusOBJ.pdf| Marks suggestion]]
** NeXusBeans

=== Unscheduled ===
==== Geometry ====
* Ratify [[Coordinate Systems]]
* Explicit geometry definition in base class definition
* New shapes
** Cylinder
** Conic section

==== Tech Group Meeting ====
Led by [[User:Freddie Akeroyd|Akeroyd]]
* Definition URL discussion
* NXtranslate
* NAPI for object oriented languages
* Utility API ported to C - who and when
* New API routines
* IDL NeXus API
* Review [http://trac.nexusformat.org/code/report/3 open tickets]
* Python binding
* Object oriented changes

==== NeXus Supervised Applications ====
* NXtranslate - anything to NeXus converter
* TVneXus - viz package
* NXextract - NeXus to anything converter
* Metadata extract
* HMI DataCollector

==== Ratify Definitions ====
* Archive
* ScanRaw ([[User:Andy Gotz|Götz]])
* Muon instruments ([[User:Steve Cottrell|Cottrell]])
* [[NXevent_data|Event Data]] - lessons learned ([[User:Peter Peterson|Peterson]])

==== Break-out Groups ====
* ScanRaw Goetz
* NXsas instrument definition Koennecke
* Documenting definitions Peterson
* Flat-cone diffractometer Hoffmann
* Synchrotron Poirier
* CCD Jemian
* Tech group Akeroyd

==Suggested Discussion Topics==

==== [[User:Jens-Uwe Hoffmann | Jens]] ====
* Flat-Cone Diffractometer Definition ([http://www.hmi.de/bensc/misc/flat-cone/rebuilding/nexus_en.html Details])
* NXcrandle Proposal 
* Strainet Proposal
* Software development
** data collector and configuration tool
** TVneXus, data analysis tool
* Visit Reactor BER II

==== [[User:Steve Cottrell | Steve]] ====
* Definitions for Muon Instruments
* Software development
** Extensions to NXtranslate

==== [[User:Nick Hauser | Nick]] ====
* Ratify the Coordinate Systems definition from Freddie. http://www.nexusformat.org/Coordinate_Systems 
* Explicit geometry definition in base class definition
* Proposal: Cylindrical geometry detectors for powder diffraction
* Proposal: Endorse netcdf as data model for Nexus
* Proposal: imgCIF Nexus collaboration 
Proposals to follow

==== [[User:Mark Koennecke | Mark]] ====
* Future of IDL-NeXus API
* Ratification of further instrument definitions
* I remember that we agreed at the last NIAC-Meeting to have a kick off session towards NeXus Definitions 2.0. I wonder if this is still on. I think Darren prepared something  for this. And so did I. But if we have more pressing business to attent too, then this has lower priority.

==== [[User:Freddie Akeroyd | Freddie]] ====
* New API routines for handling chunked datasets: NXchunkmakedata, NXgetchunk, NXputchunk

==== [[User:L.lerusse | Laurent]] ====
* [[Archive Definition]]
* nxingest a tool to extract metadata from a NeXus files and store it into a reformated xml document. 
* Status of NeXus/imgCif usage in the facilities (who is using it, who is planning to and when)

= Subsequent Talks =

We plan some additional talks (especially for HMI colleagues, guest are welcome) on Thursday 27th September LS 206:

* 10:00 L. Lerusse: "STFC e-Infrastructure: Data management for large facilities"
* 11:30 S. Flemming: INSPIRE
* 14:00 M. Könnecke: SICS
* 16:00 O. Sauer: CARESS

= Detail Information =
== Public Talk ==

== Conference Dinner ==

The conference dinner will take place at [http://www.wein-habel.de/maine.php Habel Weinkultur] in Mitte, not far from the "Brandenburger Tor" ([http://www.berlin.de/stadtplan/map.asp?ADR_ZIP=10117&ADR_STREET=Luisenstr.&ADR_HOUSE=19&show=108 plan]). I reserve the table at 20:00 (25. September 2007). 

I order the "Berlin Menu No. 1":
* Berlin ceps-potato-soup with fresh marjoram
* Smoked saddle of young pork with cumin gravy on Riesling sauerkraut with herbs potatoes
* Marinated berries with honey- poppy seed- vanilla sauce 

If somebody don't like pork, '''please inform me 10 days before!''' I will order the meals at the 17th September. 

So you can eat the "Berlin Menu No. 2"
* Berlin cray-fish soup with crayfish tails
* Pike perch fillets roasted on the skin on black salsify with leek and peas and to herbs- rice edge
* Apple fritters in hot pepper-cinnamon-sugar on wild berry cream

or a "Vegetarian" Menu.


Feel free to add this information in the [[NIAC2007_attendees | list of attendees]].



There is time for a "small" sight seeing tour before or/and after the dinner.

Jens

== Visit the BER II ==

We can visit the experimental hall with thermal instruments and the new and old neutron guide hall for cold neutrons. Please inform me if you are interested or if the date is untimely for you.

=NIAC2007 photos=
Various people took photos at the meeting.  [[NIAC2007_photos | Take a look.]]