Planning is currently underway for the NIAC / Code Camp meeting in 2012.  
This is being organised to take place at [http://www.stfc.ac.uk/About+STFC/44.aspx The Cosner's House, Abingdon, UK] and occur prior to the [http://www.nobugsconference.org/ NOBUGS meeting].

Dates are:
* NeXus code camp -> 18th / 19th September 2012
* NIAC Meeting -> 20th / 21th September 2012

* [http://www.nobugsconference.org/Conferences NoBugs meeting] -> 24th-26th September 2012

==Location and Accomodation==
[http://www.stfc.ac.uk/About+STFC/44.aspx The Cosner's House, Abingdon, UK] 

<pre>
Science and Technology Facilities Council
The Cosener's House
Abbey Close
Abingdon
Oxfordshire
OX14 3JD
United Kingdom
</pre>

The fee of £200 per event covers two nights accommodation and all meals during the days - see Logistics below

Registration is via the [http://www.nobugs2012.org/NOBUGS/registration/NeXus.html NOBUGS conference website]

==Travel==
If arriving at Heathrow, take the [http://www.oxfordbus.co.uk/main.php?page_id=24 Oxford "airline" bus], but get off at the penultimate stop [http://www.oxfordbus.co.uk/content/img/cms/wtboxfordmap2100512.jpg St Aldates] rather than Oxford bus station. Public transport to Abingdon [http://www.oxfordbus.co.uk/content/doc/cms/CityCentre%20120212.pdf leaves from St Aldates] either [http://www.oxfordbus.co.uk/main.php?page_id=21 Oxford bus company buses 35 or X3] or [http://www.thames-travel.co.uk/timetables.htm Thames travel bus X2] get off at the Vineyard or Stratton Way and walk to [http://www.stfc.ac.uk/About+STFC/44.aspx Coseners house]

If you are arriving later and wish to take a taxi/minicab from Oxford to Coseners House, there is a taxi rank at the final Oxford "airline" stop (Gloucester Green coach station). More information about taxi/minicab servcies in Oxford are on [http://www.oxford.gov.uk/PageRender/decTS/Public_transport_occw.htm this page].

==Logistics==

People arriving for the NIAC and staying on for 
NOBUGS conference the following week at [http://www.stfc.ac.uk/About+STFC/51.aspx| RAL]
can keep their rooms in Cosner's. Daily transport will be available to and from the NOBUGS venue at the RAL site.

The meeting fee for NIAC/Nexus code camp is the Coseners house 24 hour delegate rate, which covers Dinner, B+B, plus lunch. So: 
* the code camp fee will cover dinner on Monday and Tuesday evenings, 2 nights accommodation, breakfast+lunch on Tuesday and Wednesday.   
* the NIAC fee will cover dinner on Wednesday and Thursday evenings, 2 night accommodation, breakfast+lunch on Thursday and Friday.
'''If you will be staying Friday evening (and onwards) you need to [http://www.nobugs2012.org/NOBUGS/accommodation.html reserve and pay for this separately yourself with Coseners house]'''

==List of Attendees==
Please add your name to this table after registering for the meetings via the [http://www.nobugs2012.org/NOBUGS/registration/NeXus.html NOBUGS site] 

{| border="1"
! Name || Company/Institute || Code Camp (18/19) || NIAC (20/21) || NOBUGS (24-26) || Arrival date (accommodation needed from) || Departure date
|-
| [[User:Freddie Akeroyd|Freddie Akeroyd]] 
|| ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| Day attendee 
|| Day attendee 
|-
| [[User:Tobias Richter|Tobias Richter]]
|| Diamond Light Source, UK
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| Day attendee 
|| Day attendee 
|-
| [[User:Steve Cottrell|Steve Cottrell]]
|| ISIS Facility, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, UK
|| NO 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| Day attendee 
|| Day attendee 
|-
| [[User:Ben Watts|Ben Watts]]
|| Swiss Light Source, Paul Scherrer Institut, Switzerland
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| NO 
|| 18/09/2012 
|| 22/09/2012 
|-
| [[User:Jiro Suzuki|Jiro Suzuki]]
|| J-PARC, KEK, Japan
|| NO 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| 19/09/2012 
||  
|-
| [[User:Joachim Wuttke|Joachim Wuttke]]
|| JCNS at FRM II
|| NO 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| 19/09/2012 
||  
|-
| [[User:Mark Koennecke|Mark Koennecke]]
|| Paul Scherrer Institute, Switzerland
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| 17/09/2012 
||  
|-
| [[User:Jens-Uwe Hoffmann|Jens-Uwe Hoffmann]]
|| Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| 18/09/2012 
||  
|-
| [[User:Eugen Wintersberger|Eugen Wintersberger]]
|| DESY
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| 17/09/2012 
||  
|-
| [[User:Herbert J Bernstein|Herbert J Bernstein]]
|| Dowling College, USA
|| NO 
|| YES 
|| NO 
|| 19/09/2012 
|| 21/09/2012 
|-
| [[User:Fajin Yuan|Fajin Yuan]]
|| Diamond Light Source
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| Day attendee  
|| Day attendee  
|-
| [[User:Graeme Winter|Graeme Winter]]
|| Diamond Light Source
|| YES (19th) 
|| YES (20th)
|| NO 
|| Day attendee  
|| Day attendee  
|-
| [[User:David Mannicke|David Mannicke]]
|| ANSTO
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| YES 
|| 17/09/2012 
|| 27/09/2012 
|-
| [[User:Peter Peterson|Peter Peterson]]
|| SNS, ORNL, USA
|| NO
|| YES
|| YES
|| 19/09/2012 
|| 27/09/2012
|-
| [[User:Armando Sole|Armando Sole]]
|| ESRF
|| NO
|| YES
|| NO
|| 19/09/2012 
|| 22/09/2012
|-
|}

==Agenda==
   
===NeXus Code Camp ===
The code camp allows existing NeXus developers to meet and work together on developing software or resolving particular NeXus design issues. A preliminary list of items is listed below, but the exact subset is decided on the first day of the meeting.
* Finish CIF coordinate issue
* PyTree API Tests
* Cleanup NeXus applications
* NXdict replacement design
* Automatisation and documentation of NeXus release process
** Implement Continuous Integration
** Write more unit tests
* Change documentation from DocBook to Restructured Text (Sphinx)
* Cleanup trac-tickets
* Discuss timed data
* Develop a materials definition to present to NIAC
* Do we switch to CMake for all builds?
* How to integrate sphinx documentation building into Cmake

===NIAC Meeting===
This is a meeting for members of the NeXus International Advisory committee and other interested persons. It generally discusses matters of policy and strategy, but can discuss specific NeXus instrument definitions if the relevant experts are in attendance.     
* Report on the status of NeXus and Overview
* Voting officers
* Strategy discussion: Where do we go with NeXus?
* Develop and ratify  material definition for samples and sensors
* Roadmap to OO-NeXus
* Review of DECTRIS additions to NXdetector
* Review of added synchrotron beamline  base classes
* Will the tech committee be allowed decide on fields and base classes?