== NIAC Meeting ==

This is a meeting for members of the NeXus International Advisory committee and other interested persons. It generally discusses matters of policy and strategy, but can discuss specific NeXus instrument definitions if the relevant experts are in attendance.

See [[NIAC2014]] for administrative details about this meeting.

=== Schedule ===

The NIAC2014 Meeting takes place in building 437, conference room C010, starting at 9am. Evening meal is scheduled for 7 pm each day.

Here is the schedule for Thursday, 2014-12-18 (tentative):

{| border="1"
|-
! time || description || comments
|-
| 9:00 - 10:15 AM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 10:15 - 10:45 AM
| align="center" | morning break
| align="center" | (included)
|-
| 10:45 AM - 12:00 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 12:00  - 1:15 PM
| align="center" | lunch
| align="center" | offsite, traveler's expense
|-
| 1:15 - 3:15 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 3:15 - 3:30 PM
| align="center" | afternoon break
| align="center" | (included)
|-
| 3:30 - 5:00 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 5:00 - 6:00 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | Thursday summary (plenary)
|}

Here is the schedule for Friday, 2014-12-19 (tentative):

{| border="1"
|-
! time || description || comments
|-
| 9:00 - 10:15 AM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 10:15 - 10:45 AM
| align="center" | morning break
| align="center" | (included)
|-
| 10:45 AM - 12:15 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | work on projects and tasks
|-
| 12:15  - 1:00 PM
| align="center" | meeting
| align="center" | Friday summary (plenary)
|-
| 1:00 PM
| align="center" | 
| align="center" | meeting adjourns
|}


Notes:
# morning and afternoon breaks will be provided
# breakfast, lunch, dinner will be in a local restaurant at traveler's expense

=== Agenda ===

* Votes on new members 
* Electing new officers, candidates get ready!
* Revise Constitution [[NIAC#Terms_of_Reference | Terms of Reference ]]:
** item 3: change wording of "instrument and group class definitions" to contemporary terms (base classes and instrument definitions)
* Examination of contributed definitions and consideration for ratification:
** joint CIF/NeXus NXmx
** NXarpes
** NXcite
** NXtransformations
** others
* Deprecation of NeXus polar coordinate system, NXgeometry?
* Do we want better standardization and documentation of NeXus processes?
* Discussion about how we assign priorities and respond to the community
* Do we want NeXus Interfaces for improving base class documentation?
* application definitions: can some items be optional?
* Data Features (lightweight tags with recipes) versus application definitions?
* Rules for multi file NeXus files
* NXdata: 
** proposal: describe [[2014_How_to_find_default_data | how to find the default data]]
** proposal: describe how data are related (particularly: [[2014_axes_and_uncertainties | axes and uncertainties]])
* NXformula
*[[Update for NXflou application definition]]

=== Notes ===
==== Thursday ====
==== Friday ====

=== Minutes ===