This discussion concerns a proposal from [[NIAC2008]] to rename [[NXevent_data]] as NXtofevent_data. When this proposal was passed to the full committee, a number of issues were raised and it was decided that a further round of discussion was required.

Please comment on the proposals below on the [[Talk:Storing_Event_Data|discussion page]]
   
Listed below are some of the main reasons cited for and against:

==REASONS FOR==

* NXtofevent_data better describes the content of the object, given that [[NXevent_data]] has a "time_of_flight" member

==REASONS AGAINST==

* Event data is potentially of importance to the other communities and therefore it would be good to ensure that the definition name for event data is as general as possible. Event data is not always measured against "time_of_flight" - it may be e.g. muon decay time and so a more general "event_time" axis may be applicable 

* I'm not sure why the addition of "tof" is necessary. Pulsed source and chopped continuous source event data can be represented in ways that are substantially the same. By renaming the fields we can handle different kinds of events in the same manner, so there is no need to change the group name to be specific to time of flight

* NXtofevent_data is an ugly name. NXtof_event_data is a better name, or just NXevent_data

==PROPOSAL from Paul Kienzle regarding contents of NXevent_data==

First note that either pulse_height or pulse_time is the wrong name.

*   pulse_height[i,k?] refers to the voltage pulse measured by the detector
*   pulse_time[j] refers to the time that the neutron pulse reached the moderator

The description of the pulse_height field is confusing. It refer to events_per_pulse, which has length j but it's own index is of length i, so something is screwy.

I suggest renaming time_of_flight to event_time and pulse_time to frame_time and you have something that can be used either for continuous or pulsed sources.

*   event_time[i]: time relative to the start of the frame
*   pixel_number[i]: detector which registered the event
*   frame_time[j]: time relative to the start of the measurement
*   events_per_frame[j]: as before
*   pulse_height[i,k?]: detector voltages

The frame_time for continuous sources presumably refers to the time when the detector was turned on after moving the motors during a scan for multi-point scans.  When scanning continously (a potentially useful measurement during alignment operations), the frame time would more likely refer to the pulses from the motor position detectors.