==Date==

Thursday, 1st October, 17:00 Central European Time (Copenhagen)

Hangout Link: https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g2e2ayoq57srpi2g4zv2c2ewbua

==Agenda==

* Welcome and agree Agenda
* code camp update and plans
* sample container proposal
* recording scan intend proposal
* Generic proposal for spatial and other axes on nD Detectors: (slowest, slow, fast) -- new use cases or ready?
* geometric shapes and operations (mantid/mcstas geometry conversion) update
* code (napi) cmake update and release timelime
* CXI update (Mark B) this time with better microphone
* Next meeting
* AOB

==Minutes==

Present:

Eugen (only listening), Herbert, Andreas from Dectris, Pete Jemian, Mark K. 

* Andreas brought up some question regrading trigger_delay_time which resolved into a clarification that the one in NeXus base class is the hardware trigger_delay_time. A new, effective_trigger_delay, time in proposed  which will sum all trigger delays, from hardware or software or else.
* As the main players for the other topics on the Agenda were not present, we discussed the NXvalidate  white paper. Many points were resolved. Mark K will update the white paper with the results of the discussions  shortly. It was felt that it is more important to get the things done rather then haggle for a long time about the  optimal solution and details.
* The discussion returned to NXmx. Uptake of NeXus/HDF-5 is still difficult. The problem are the data analysis package maintainers. Herbert suggested to have a workshop and help them get NeXus implemented around one  of the big crystallographic conferences next year. Dectris may be supporting this workshop. 
* The next Telco is scheduled for November, 4, 17:00 Berlin, CPH, Zürich time