==Date==

Monday, 30th January, 16:30 Brussels Time

Hangout Link: https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

==Agenda==

* Welcome and agree Agenda
* github issue of the day
* [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/511 #511: pixel as NX_length update] look at work in branch https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/compare/NXmx_multimodule_and_dectris_changes
* [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/486 #486: web site redesign] demo planned - wiki replacement?
* [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/177 #177: delete NXcharacterization base class] as suggested on Jul 28, 2015
* update on features or interfaces
* HDRMX Lund meeting
* links to RDA
* Membership vote
* AOB

==Minutes==

Present: EW, AB, HJB, MB, MK, TSR

===511===
Aaron will have a closer look to make sure this is sane.

===486===
No show by Ray. But we agreed moving the wiki out of mediawiki into jekylls hands. Tobias will work with Freddie to extract the content.

===177===
Tobias accidentally deleted NXcharacterization in a failed attempt to generate a pull request. No objections.

===features and interfaces===
Deferred

===HDRMX Lund meeting===
Herbert invited all interested parties to attend. Mark K suggested it is a fun meeting from the Basel experience. Tobias will attend.

===RDA===
Someone from Diamond will attend the Alba satellite meeting. Mark K supports the idea a few people from the NeXus community should go. He'll look into that, as will Tobias.

===Voting===
Some of the recent online votes carried a clear majority of the votes cast, but have failed to reach a quorum of votes from the eligible members. The constitution does not see that as a problem explicitly, but it would be nice if that was formally permitted. We'll bring that up at the next NIAC.

==Next meeting===
[[Telco 20170220]]

===AOB===

Mark B has an example file for the NXevent_data for interested people to look at:
https://hangouts.google.com/hangouts/redirect?dest=https%3A%2F%2Fdrive.google.com%2Fopen%3Fid%3D0B8BtsLXcNIF3clBPbFlZNVpKTjg