==Date==

Tuesday, 28th June, 16:30 Central European Summer Time (Copenhagen)

Hangout Link: https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

==Agenda==

* Welcome and agree Agenda
* github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (there is a github label now)
** [https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/478 PR #478 (NXspecdata as contributed definition)]
* items for NIAC (or code camp) to prepare
* Next meeting
* AOB
** look at [http://download.nexusformat.org/doc/html/classes/index.html new text] in the manual
** phrase search the manual: [https://duckduckgo.com/?q=%22signal+data%22+site%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fdownload.nexusformat.org%2Fdoc%2Fhtml&t=ffsb&ia=web signal data]: https://duckduckgo.com/?q=%22signal+data%22+site%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fdownload.nexusformat.org%2Fdoc%2Fhtml&t=ffsb&ia=web

==Minutes==

Present: HJB, PJ, AB (first 10 min), TSR

=== NXspecdata ===

The idea is that eventually SPEC may write NeXus. Most fields are mappings of what core macros write out.
The usage of the files isn't quite in alignment with NeXus traditions, for example with respect to the relationships between files and NXentries. And there are other open comments, but contributed definitions can be work in progress. Merged 

=== NIAC items ===

Recorded here: https://github.com/nexusformat/NIAC/issues

=== Next Telco ===
[[Telco 20160712]]

=== AOB ===

Herbert mentions this web site on HDR MX http://hdrmx.medsbio.org/

PJ brings the next wording on the base classes to our attention. We all agree, but find actually developing a base class has implications on the technical infrastructure. Ticket in NIAC opened. Also: The search on the manual pages is not as useful as it could be.