==NeXus Browsers and Other Utilities==
;[[NXbrowse]]:A command-line utility for browsing NeXus files.
;NXtoXML:A utility to translate NeXus files to XML, written in ISO C. If used from a terminal (and installed in the default PATH [u**x] or defined as a symbol [VMS]), type
<pre>
NXtoXML <NeXus_file> <XML_file>
</pre>
:On most systems, NXtoXML is compiled and linked during the standard NeXus installation (v2.0 and later). Precompiled binary versions are available for a limited number of operating systems (Linux, VMS, Macintosh). Please contact Ray Osborn for more information.
;NXtoDTD: A utility to translate NeXus files to XML without including the data values, written in ISO C. This is useful in defining the structure of a NeXus file and can be used to produce the skeleton of a NeXus metaDTD file from an existing NeXus file. If used from a terminal (and installed in the default PATH [u**x] or defined as a symbol [VMS]), type
<pre>
NXtoDTD <NeXus_file> <XML_file>
</pre>
:On most systems, NXtoDTD is compiled and linked during the standard NeXus installation (v2.0 and later). Precompiled binary versions are available for a limited number of operating systems (Linux, VMS, Macintosh). Please contact Ray Osborn for more information.
;[[NXdir]]:CLI tool that lists contents of NeXus file and convert selected portions to ASCII.
;NXtree:A utility to output the structure of a NeXus file in a tree structure. It has options to produce either HTML or LaTeX output, with or without data values and attributes.
<pre>
NXtree [-[no]attr] [-[no]data] [-html | -latex] <NeXus_file>
</pre>
:The file NXtree.tar.gz contains the source code to be used on u**x platforms and NXtree-win32.zip contains a binary version for various flavors of Windows. It was written by Thomas Proffen <tproffen@lanl.gov>
;NXvalid:GUI tool to interactively explore, plot, and validate NeXus files.
;NXtranslate:Anything to NeXus converter
;NDS:NeXus data server, publish NeXus files on TCP/IP, read only (SINQ)
;NNDB:Java program to browse NeXus files published through NDS (SINQ)
;HDFView:Java-based tool for browsing and visualizing HDF4/5 files.
;HDFExplorer:Windows 95/98/NT HDF viewer. Since this link is now broken, I have no idea if they are still maintaining the product.