==============
Telco 20241218
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 18th Dec, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

-  ZOOM VC link:
   https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09
-  Meeting ID: 652 7209 1306
-  Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

-  canSAS?
-  PRs
   `1410 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1410>`__
   `1414 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1414>`__
   `1419 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1419>`__
   `1413 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1413>`__
   `1415 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1415>`__
   `1420 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1420>`__
   `1424 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1424>`__

Present
-------

SB, AB, HB, FS, PC, BW + LukasP, MarkusK (FAIRmat)

Minutes
-------

-  | feedback on copyright with different dates:
     `1437 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/1437>`__
   | Global copyright can be the date for the fiorst release
   | Individual definitions shall have they initial date spelled out,
     together with the data of the latest release they have been
     boundled with.

-  | FS: questions on NXxas documentation is not clear on what is what.
     e.g.Â incoming_beam/data
   | SB: there is a NXxas workgroup, please join this effort on making
     this AppDef better
   | AB: also open a corresponding issue, so we can track progress

-  | PRs under vote:
   | `1408 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1408>`__
   | `1486 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1486>`__

-  | PRs
   | `1507 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1507>`__ -
     ready for merge
   | AB: accepted, get merged
   | `1410 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1410>`__ -
     for Vote
   | AB: documentation should be made more clear
   | BW: do we need such attribute for the group itself?
   | AB: it requires a vote, let us put it up for it after the suggested
     changes are implemented.
   | `1414 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1414>`__ -
     only Review needed
   | AB: After removing the not yet reviewed class, it contains now only
     proposal which has already been reviewed. As it has been voted and
     accepted, after fixing the requested changes, it can be merged in.
   | AB: SB could open a new issue on updating the original and
     potentially outdated documentation of NXenvironment to be more
     clear.
   | `1419 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1419>`__ -
     only Review is needed
   | After 1486, this can be also merged.
   | `1420 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1420>`__ -
     only Review is needed
   | AB: has already been voted. Restructuring was asked to use
     inheritance. PR depends on PRs in vote.
   | LP: we can remove NXcalibration from here and then it can be merged
     immediate after review.
   | AB: NXregistration shall also subclass NXprocess. This needs to be
     addressed first, and then merge is possible.
   | `1522 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1522>`__ -
     further discussion needed
   | LP: PR needs to be updated
   | `1519 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1519>`__ -
     further discussion needed
   | AB: We could make NXcomponent a superclass of lots of instrument
     components. This can be addressed in a separate PR.
   | HB: NXcomponent properties could be part of NXobject
   | AB: Alternative: keep NXlens_em separate from NXcomponent if it
     shall be merged before making a decision on NXcomponent.

Jan Telco(s)
------------

Please help to `choose the date by responding to the
poll <https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/bq62ky0d>`__ by Dec 31.
We are planning to hold the telco in the regular slot of UTC 15:00.
Check your local time to avoid scheduling surprises!
