=================
Telco 20170628
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20170628
         :name: telco-20170628
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20170628_date

      Wednesday, 28 June, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20170628_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  Code Camp or similar activity in 2017
      -  SWMR support (HDF5 1.10) - example files
      -  multiple samples in one NXenty
      -  NXslit update
      -  Github HDF5 filters repo
      -  Github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github
         label)

         -  `definitions PRs & issues marked as
            "telco" <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/labels/telco>`__

      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20170628_minutes

      Present: AB, PJ, TSR, MB, MK, EW

      .. rubric:: Code Camp
         :name: Telco_20170628_code-camp

      PSI, DESY and DLS look into hosting somethign this year.

      NOBUGS 2018 will be in the US, so having it in Europe again would
      be okay.

      .. rubric:: SWMR support
         :name: swmr-support

      We want to encourage users to adopt HDF5 1.10 and hence using SWMR
      files as examples is fine. But files need to identify themselves
      as SWMR/HDF5-1.10 so users are not surprised by them not being
      readable using legacy libraries. README information would be nice,
      but the filename has a safer way of conveying that information.

      .. rubric:: Multiple Samples in one Measurement
         :name: multiple-samples-in-one-measurement

      Both ESS and LCLS raise that as a use case. AB will provide an
      example of how he would suggest to encode that.

      .. rubric:: NXslit
         :name: Telco_20170628_nxslit

      After some discussion we agreed that having extra terms in the
      base class is a good solution, because many people many want to
      record information on individual blades. EW will make a proposal.

      .. rubric:: HDF5 filters
         :name: hdf5-filters

      EW is making good progress on documenting the repo content and
      simplifying the build system. More to be see next time.

      .. rubric:: Github Issue of the day
         :name: Telco_20170628_github-issue-of-the-day

      DLS suggest moving the @target link attribute to the group level
      in order to find the source location of data linked to NXdata in
      an external HDF5 linking scenario. MB will produce an example
      file.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20170628_next-meeting

      `Telco 20170711 <Telco_20170711.html>`__
