=================
Telco 20160202
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20160202
         :name: telco-20160202
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20160202_date

      Tuesday, 2nd February, 16:30 Central European Time (Copenhagen)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20160202_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  versioning classes and application definitions (per request
         from Andreas)
      -  http://nexusformat.org main landing page
      -  sample container proposal - DLS
      -  recording scan intent proposal - DLS
      -  CXI update (Mark B) this time with better microphone and legal
         advice
      -  cnxvalidate testing
      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20160202_minutes

      Present: AF, RO, MK, TSR, HJB, MB, AB, FA (first half hour)

      .. rubric:: Version in NeXus Definitions and Classes
         :name: version-in-nexus-definitions-and-classes

      There is currently no technical infrastructure in place to make
      version work in a way software developers would expect. For
      example git does not allow easy access to a version of a file that
      contains a particular version string. There are various ways to
      achieve this and people will think about this.

      In any case having a Changelog document or section on top of each
      file would be a useful start in the right direction.

      More thoughts and discussions needed.

      .. rubric:: Main Web Landing Page
         :name: main-web-landing-page

      The current content focusses on installation and documentation of
      the API, which is not the main thing we offer (any more). This
      could be changed easily.

      There is a potential longer list of things to address and we can
      generate and discuss a list of desirable changes.

      The possibility of using Wordpress was brought up, but it was felt
      that as a tool to serve a single page it would be a too heavy
      handled solution. Another possibility was to use Sphinx with a
      nice template and Ray and Pete will see if they want to make a
      suggestion.

      Otherwise some CSS or other tools could be used to make this page
      look nicer.

      .. rubric:: sample contain proposal
         :name: sample-contain-proposal

      DLS have made some edits to allow for more flexible handling
      sample containers in NXsample. ESS have made some changes to
      NXsample that sit in a branch to address sample components and
      atom sites (analogue to CIF) as well as fixing some
      crystallographic features. HJB suggested to implement both
      orthogonal and fractional atom sites. Changes at least to the
      documentation will be required to correct the description of
      orientation matrices vs UB matrices.

      .. rubric:: recording of scan intend
         :name: recording-of-scan-intend

      DLS think they might be able to address their use case with the
      \_set demand values. Probably no change or addition needed.

      .. rubric:: CXI
         :name: cxi

      After some licensing problems DLS are talking to the community and
      they appear happy to make the small changes required to make the
      current CXI format fully NeXus compliant. Further updates in due
      course, but no problems in sight.

      .. rubric:: cnxvalidate
         :name: Telco_20160202_cnxvalidate

      No testers yet. Mark K is keen on feedback or bug reports.

      .. rubric:: Next meeting
         :name: Telco_20160202_next-meeting

      `Telco 20160224 <Telco_20160224.html>`__
