---
title: NIACDesign
permalink: NIACDesign.html
layout: wiki
---

NIAC Decisions regarding NeXus Design Questions
-----------------------------------------------

This section records NIAC decisions regarding the design of NeXus. With
design meaning all more general topics reagrding the layout of files,
how things are done in NeXus, general rules and such.

### General Rules

NIAC 2003: Recommendation: use nxs extension for files nut h5, hdf, xml
and others are prmitted

NIAC 2003: Physical units will be stored in accordance with the udunits
utility. Dates and times will be specified in ISO8601 format.

NIAC 2003: Positions will be stored as effective (physical) positions.
Motor offsets will be stored as attribute to the data.

NIAC 2007: When a scan is stored, the scan variable sould be the slowest
varying variable.

NIAC 2010: offset/stride mechanism for describing data not in C storage
order

NIAC 2014: By default values are readback values. If a set value is
required, store it with the values name with \_set appended.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Base classes and application definition general Rules

NIAC 2003: Neither instrument definitions nor base classes will be
subclassed

NIAC 2003: When NXdetector is included in a file, there will be a
one-to-one correspondence between NXdata and NXdetector.

NIAC 2004: It is a violation of the NeXus standard to use NX in class
names or fields unless authorized by NIAC

NIAC 2004: Keep a NIAC version number aligned with the cvs-ID in the the
header of each base class

NIAC 2004: When linking, add a source attribute to the data item to
indicate where it is linked too.

NIAC 2004: Allow dimension scales to have arbitary dimensions in order
to cope with non linear coordinate schemes

NIAC 2005: Inheritance will be done in metaDTD only. This will be
annotated with a tag conforms\_to which contains a list of definitions
this definitions also conforms too.

NIAC 2005: characterisation measurements are to referenced by linking in
another complete NXentry from another file through the external linking
mechanism.

NIAC 2008: ratified NXprocess for processed data. File structure plus
associated groups and fields

NIAC 2010: NXsubentry was agreed upon

NIAC 2012: We allow application definitions to be flat and simple

NIAC 2012: optional fields in application definitions endorsed.

NIAC 2014: Optional fields in application definitions again ratified.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Coordinate Systems

NIAC 2003: A right handed coordinate system is designed with the
positive z-axis along the beam when facing downstream.

NIAC 2003: If a simplifed position is needed the entries will be
polar\_angle, azimuthal\_angle and distance.

NIAC 2004: Allow cylindrical and polar coordinates in NXtranslation

NIAC 2004: every instrument component is to have a distance and
NXgeometry group. Comment in 2015: this was decided but never
implemented.

NIAC 2007: axes follow McStas conventions.

NIAC 2010: Added meridional\_angle axis

NIAC 2012: accepted CIF style coordinate descriptions with depends\_on
fields and depends\_on, vector, transformation\_type etc attributes

NIAC 2014: NXgeometry marked as deprecated. CIF style coordinate
descriptions are the preferred method.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Errors

NIAC 2004: Errors to a dataset will be named dataset\_error.
Alterntaively, the dataset can have an attribute, error\_formula, which
specifies how the error is calulated.

NIAC 2010: Add an uncertainties attribute to any numeric array to
describe errors

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Axes

NIAC 2003: Two axes schemes: via the axes attribute on the data and via
the axis=n and primary=n on the dimension scales

NIAC 2003: Histograms can be specified either by having an extra element
in the dimension scale or by a histogram\_offset attribute on the
dimension scale

NIAC 2012: Move axes and signal attribute as attributes of the enclosing
group

NIAC 2014: Accepted axes and {axis}\_indices group attributes for the
description of axes in NXdata and other groups.
