---
title: NXmeasurement
permalink: NXmeasurement.html
layout: wiki
---

NXmeasurement
-------------

This is a proposal for NeXus which comes out of the NeXus for
Synchrotrons workshop at PSI

In order to satisfy the requirements of the beamline scientist an
additional, simplified NeXus hierarchy is proposed:

    entry:NXentry
       measurement:NXmeasurement
          positions:NXpositioners
          scalars:NXscalar
          images:NXimagedata

Please note that this is an example how a NXmeasurement group may look
like. The general feeling was to allow much freedom in NXmeasurement and
standardize later on if a common pattern emerges. The meaning is that
the NXpositioners groups contains a list of all constants and motor
positions, NXscalar arrays of all parameters varied during the scan and
NXimageData the images and other detector data which has been captured
during a scan or measurement. This structure is for the expert, the
instrument scientist, who knows his instrument by heart and wishes to be
able to plot anything against anything in his instrument. NXmeasurement
is not meant to stand alone but is to be augmented with further
NXsubentries containing the data in proper NeXus notation and hierarchy.
It was pointed out that such a simplified view can be generated by a
data analysis application from a full NeXus NXinstrument view.

Conclusion
----------

01/2015

As an in part answer to this proposal the NIAC adopted the NXcollection
base class as a free form container for things which no one cares to
standardize. Data in NXcollection will not be validated. But such a free
form structure defeats one objective of NeXus, namely providing a
dictionary of well defined field names. Thus users are encouraged to use
the base classes as far as possible and communicate with the NIAC about
missing fields. NXmeasurement as suggested here was rejected.
