---
title: NXnet Proposal
permalink: NXnet_Proposal.html
layout: wiki
---

The motivation for NeXus is to allow the exchange of data between
programs, instruments, establishments and branches of science where the
neutron, muon and X-ray technologies are the common theme. Recently the
NeXus community has been greatly (and crucially) occupied with choosing
what data to store in a file and how it should be described in a common
fashion.

This proposal tackles a complementary facet of the broader problem;
namely the exchange of the data files themselves between the programs,
operating systems, instruments and establishments.

Most scientists doing experiments on instruments at different
establishments will have experienced the joy of trying to copy data off
a variety of different computer systems, often being forced to network a
laptop machine at the last minute, write a CD or floppy disk before
racing to catch a flight, manually select and copy files one at a time
via ftp and/or negotiate a firewall to get at their data. If very lucky,
maybe they have been able to download data from a conveniently set up
web site, where remembering the password has been the only problem.

If this state of affairs wasn’t bad enough, there are things that are
even harder to do than read your data. For example, you might want to
send a few calibration files and sample setup notes to a remote site
ready for an experiment. This would normally be seen as folly unless you
have a trusted colleague already on site to help you receive and look
after the files. And what if you’ve forgotten a file you needed on
arrival? Wouldn’t it be nice if you could do a bit of data reduction on
site and then continue at home, all the time saving the reduced files in
the same directory as the raw data (and with no need to copy the data
locally). And then permit a colleague to access a few of the files from
their own laptop whilst at home (by setting permissions like you do on a
local Unix NFS file system or Windows share)?

There is really very little reason why we should accept such a desperate
state of affairs. With the help of the UK’s e-Science centre we have
been experimenting with the San Diego Supercomputing Centre’s SRB
(Storage Resource Broker) for several months now. This provides at a
minimum a very credible and functional globally distributable file
system.

The proposal is in three parts.

1.  We adopt SRB as a working system on which to experiment with
    building a global integrated network for sharing Neutron, Muon and
    X-Ray data between our establishments and our users. We do this
    pragmatically (like we have done with HDF) because it currently
    seems to do the job and support is what standards like this need to
    develop.
2.  More fundamentally, we extend our remit of defining and organizing
    data types within the NeXus file to also giving some sort of
    standardisation to the organisation and location of data within a
    global file system. Quite simply, this just avoids things being lost
    by everyone storing things under different names and in different
    places (for example, a naming convention for raw files).
3.  Even more fundamentally, we spend some effort defining the sort of
    meta-data which we might associate with each file (possibly not
    contained in the NeXus file itself). This meta-data would enable a
    data portal style search engine, just like a super data-Google
    quickly to find relevant data by searching throughout this global
    file system. Some of this sort of work is already underway but some
    sort of standardization of the type and contents of this metadata is
    very close to the sort of standardization we are aiming at with the
    NeXus file contents and would greatly ease the ability to search and
    find relevant information.

The sheer use-ability of this particular system, especially for quite a
young technology is staggering. This is not something to be planning for
next year or the year after, it’s something to be using now – and then
planning how to build a data storage and access strategy around it.
NeXus has taken a long time to grow to the point where we are able to
agree on the most difficult issue of what is common within our data
files, this is because it’s a really difficult job. Taking some
responsibility for (2) and (3) in particular is a lot less work but is
something best tackled early.

Chris Moreton-Smith
