---
title: Proposal NeXus Coordinates
permalink: Proposal_NeXus_Coordinates.html
layout: wiki
---

The current definition for NXdata groups assumes that the data (or
signal) SDS is, in general, a multidimensional array that can be plotted
against one or more independent axes, equal in number to the rank of the
signal SDS. These axes are defined through the “axes” attribute.
However, there are cases where the data represent a set of pixels that
are defined by their coordinates, <em>i.e.</em>, they do not form a
contiguous array. The data would then consist of a one-dimensional
array. At present, such data can only be plotted against a single
one-dimensional axis even if it is distributed in two-, three-, or
higher-dimensional space. If we are to have a standard method of
plotting such data, we need to have a way of identifying the pixel
coordinates.

Proposal
--------

An extra attribute be defined for a data (or signal) SDS called
“coordinates”, which would consist of a text string containing the names
of one or more SDSs that represent the coordinates of the signal SDS.
The names will be separated by the same delimiters allowed for the
“axes” attribute. The signal SDS must be one-dimensional.

There are two scenarios:

1.  The coordinates represent the centre of each pixel, so each
    coordinate SDS is also one-dimensional of the same length as the
    signal SDS.
2.  The coordinates represent the vertices of each pixel, so each
    coordinate SDS would be two-dimensional, with the slower changing
    dimension having the same length as the signal SDS and the faster
    changing dimension having length of the number of vertices
    (=2<sup><em>n</em></sup> for cartesian coordinates, where <em>n</em>
    is the number of coordinate SDSs. In that case, an attribute
    “number\_vertices” containing an integer specifying the number of
    vertices will be added to the signal SDS.

Discussion
----------

Here is an example NXdata group:

<NXdata name="data">  
`   `<data signal="1" coordinates="polar_angle:azimuthal_angle" number_vertices="8">`...`</data>  
`   `<polar_angle>`...`</polar_angle>  
`   `<azimuthal_angle>`...`</azimuthal_angle>  
</NXdata>

One problem is that the coordinates are not necessarily orthogonal. This
is the case for the above example, in which the spherical polar
coordinates, polar\_angle and azimuthal\_angle, are not orthogonal. Any
plotting program will have to know that SDSs with those particular names
have to be treated differently from those that are orthogonal. There may
be a case for the standard stating how to handle a number of specific
instances,<em>e.g.</em>, spherical polar coordinates, reciprocal-space
coordinates in symmetries lower than orthorhombic, <em>etc</em>.

In cases where the plotting program is only able to handle pixel
centres, but vertices are provided, the pixel centres would have to be
approximated by the average value of the vertices for each coordinate.

I propose to present this for discussion and a possible vote at the
upcoming NIAC meeting at the SNS on October 7-8.

  
[Ray](User%3ARay_Osborn.html "wikilink") 19:08, 29 September 2010 (UTC)

Conclusion
----------

01/2015: This has been superseded by the new axes annotation scheme
decided at NIAC 2014
