---
title: Telco 20170308
permalink: Telco_20170308.html
layout: wiki
---

Date
----

Wednesday, 8th March, 16:30 Central European Summer Time (Copenhagen)

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   wiki & website move
    -   any outstanding problems
    -   return of user pages?
-   Github NIAC repo
-   Github definitions repo stale branches
-   Questions below from Dectris (Andreas - Tobias edited for markdown) in preparation of the [HDRMX Meeting](https://indico.maxiv.lu.se/event/233/overview). For convenience here are links to [NXdetector](http://download.nexusformat.org/doc/html/classes/base_classes/NXdetector.html#nxdetector) and [NXmx](http://download.nexusformat.org/doc/html/classes/applications/NXmx.html#nxmx).
    *   `dead_time`, `detector_readout_time` and `frame_time` are defined as `NX_FLOAT`.  `count_time` is defined as `NX_NUMBER`, all four with units=`NX_TIME`.  Shouldn't the parameters be of the same data type?
    *   `frame_time` is described as `exposure_time + readout time`.  To be consistent with the other parameters, this should be `count_time + detector_readout_time`.
    *   `sensor_material` is described as "the name of this converter material" for "radiation [..] not directly sensed by the detector".  Can this description be expanded to include directly detected radiation?
    *   Same for `sensor_thickness`.
    *   `flatfield_applied` is currently called `flatfield_correction_applied`.  This is arguably in better agreement with `angular_calibration_applied`.  Can we keep it?
    *   Are the group names binding or only their NX classes?  For example, EIGER calls the `NXcollection` group `detectorSpecific`, not `collection`.  Similarly, the `NXdetector_module` group is planned to be called `module` not `detector_module`.
    *   What does the required parameter `/entry/instrument/detector/data[np,i,j]` entail?
    *   A parameter like `detector_number` that gives the serial number should be made mandatory.  Or it could be an attribute to `/entry/instrument/detector/description`?
-   github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github label)
    - [definitions #524](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/524)
-   Github HDF5 filters repo
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: 

