---
title: Telco 20220131
permalink: Telco_20220131.html
layout: wiki
---

Date
----

Monday, 31st January, 14:00 UTC

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Connect
-------
* ZOOM VC link: [https://psich.zoom.us/j/65356830562?pwd=dERIbEtvWk5mMDE0c1BBc1RmTC9UUT09](https://psich.zoom.us/j/65356830562?pwd=dERIbEtvWk5mMDE0c1BBc1RmTC9UUT09)
* Meeting ID: 653 5683 0562
* Passcode: 602214


Agenda
------
   * Welcome new members
   * Review previous meeting minutes and actions: [December Telco](Telco_20211215.md)
   * Recent issues on Github (especially those labelled with "telco")
     * [definitions](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)
     * [code](https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)

Present
-------
BW, WdN, HB, HG, TM, LG, RO, UH, AB, MK, SB, PC

Minutes
------
   * PC has moved the ROI base class to contributed and is ready for NIAC review. NXbeam is also ready for review.
   * SB asks for clarification of NXbeam vs NXsource:
    * NXbeam - at some position
    * NXsource - at point of beam production
   * Dectris asked about [end_time_estimated being a required field](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/966). HB says it is needed in order to make sure that something is written about the end-time since the actual end time might be omitted if things go wrong. It reflects the importance of being able to estimate the dose applied to the sample. 
    * RO suggested including it in the base class for more general use.
    * SB asked if the FIELD_variant would be a viable alternative.
   * SB asks if we should generally be pushing new fields from App Defs into the corresponding base classes. YES.
   * SB  aks about showing the candidate changes/additions similar to the contributed app defs.
   * HB suggests having future release candidate branches.
   * BW warns not to muddy the waters.
   * NXgeometry is already deprecated. there is a pull-request pending.
   * BW asks about NOBUGS and options for the next NIAC
    * MK says that the plan is for a 19-22 Sept Hybrid NOBUGS and for a hybrid NIAC the week before.
    * HB says US people need the NOBUGS info published asap in order to get travel permission (tpyically takes 4-6 months).
    * Still appetite for a virtual NIAC in March - BW will quickly send out a poll to choose the precise dates.

  * RO says John Wright has working group with IUCR on synchrotron data standardisation and he is recommending NeXus. Newcomers are welcome. (IUCR data reporting)
  * SB asks about storing complex numbers (HB extends to quaternoins). MK says it hasn't been well defined. PC says that he sets up a composite HDF dataset to match what h5py does.
  * SB asks about having more than one signal in an NXdata. RO says we have auxilliary_signals and it is implemented in NeXpy.

BW will send out a poll for the next telco in mid-late February (in addition to a poll on the March NIAC dates).

