==================
NXmonotas-NIAC2006
==================


--- title: NXmonotas-NIAC2006 permalink: NXmonotas-NIAC2006.html layout:
wiki --- Example:
[NXmonotas\\_example-NIAC2006](NXmonotas_example-NIAC2006.html
"wikilink")
NXmonotas {Reciprocal space vector of primary reflection in the
scattering plane} {Reciprocal space vector of secondary reflection in
the scattering plane} {Polar angle of the sample with respect to the
beam incident on the monochromator} {Azimuthal angle of the sample with
respect to the beam incident on the monochromator} {Rotation angle of
the sample} {Magnitude of momemtum transfer vector}? {Reciprocal space
component of scan}? {Reciprocal space component of scan}? {Reciprocal
space component of scan}? {Energy transfer of scan} ? ? {Optimum
diffracted energy} {The planar spacing of the nominal reflection}
{Rotation angle of the monochromator} ? ? ? ? {Optimum diffracted energy
for each analyzer} ? {Integer counts} {Polar angle of the detector with
respect to the beam incident on the monochromator} {Azimuthal angle of
the detector with respect to the beam incident on the analyzer} {Preset
timer value. This may be a vector if your control software can allow
different points in the sequence to be counted for different lengths.
The measured duration is not necessarily equal to the preset since the
monitor or detector may reach their presets earlier}? {Start times of
the individual measurements relative to the start of the scan. This
field is recommend so that for example NXlog entries can be plotted on
the same scale as individual points, but it is not required since many
old data sets do not store it.}? {Duration of the individual
measurements in the scan. If absent, then the duration is assumed to be
the value of the preset.}?
