---
title: Telco 20241209
permalink: Telco_20241209.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20241209
==============

Date
----

Monday, 9th Dec, 15:00 UTC


Connect
-------
* ZOOM VC link: [https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09](https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09)
* Meeting ID: 652 7209 1306
* Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------
* domain names
* canSAS?
* PRs  
[1517](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1517)  
[1518](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1518)  
[1407](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1407)  
[1486](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1486)  
[1408](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1408)  
[1410](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1410)  
[1414](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1414)  
[1419](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1419)  
[1413](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1413)  
[1415](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1415)  
[1420](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1420)  
[1424](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1424)  


Present
-------
SB, AB, RB, HB, FS, WdN, BB, RO, BW, PC + Lukas P., Markus K., Ron H., Rubel M. (FAIRmat)

Minutes
-------
* domain names  
  AB: We have been contacted from China that our domain.cn  
  HB: we should say no to that  
  AB: will ask LBL leagal team  

* PRs  
[1517](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1517)  
AB: PC has reviewed and approved it, so we can merge it in  
[1518](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1518)  
AB: HB has approved,   
RO: spelling mistakes  
AB: will resolve remaining comments, but no further requests.  
[1407](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1407)  
AB: the idea of the possibility for opening up enumerations is also relevant here  
HB: note that enum items should be intorduced with documentation   
AB: this has been approved in its current form, so let us do the documentation improvmenet in a separate step  
RO: we need both option of closed and open enumerations  
AB: subclassing is approved, but Lukas reported that it may not solve the problem without supporting multiple inheritance  
BW: a new vote is not necessary to revoke the request for subclassing, as it has just turned out that the implementation of the previous vote would result in a contradiction.  
AB: Let us accept it and release this requieremnt of using subclasses  
AB: NXlens_em must be approved itself before we use it in other approved definitions  
LP: It is fine to take it to a spearate PR  
AB: with these decisions, we can merge this in  
[1486](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1486)  
RO: documenttaion is too long and could be separated out  
AB: rendering hides the long doc and shows it collapesd  
RO: that looks good  
AB: let us remove type_oter also from here (assuming open enumerations will be supported)  
AB: after all conversations have been resolved, let us start an online vote.  
[1507](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1507)  
SB: FIELDNAME_xxx require the presence of a field with name FIELDNAME  
AB: clarification could be added  
AB: is this need a vote? or ot os just an implementatin of the convention?  
Telco participants decided that we do not need a vote here  
AB: let people not being on telco respond that, otherwise let merge it.  
RM: do we realy want to support nested groups?  
SB: yes, it might read confusing, but indeed the proposal supports nested groups for all those listed  
[1408](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1408)  
AB: fields from NXmx are pulled to the base class now, so it can be resued by others, too.  
AB: copied extra documentation (to energy from wavelength) could be replaced by simple reference.  
LP: Yes, it is OK  
PC: Are previous/next deivces needed?  
SB: Yes, we use them to store information on optical setups where *-like relations are between optical devices  
AB: let us bring this to a vote  
AB: Additionally to them, there are lots of new fields, like fluence, etc. Shall we do not put them to AppDefs  
BW: We should collect them in the base class and let AppDefs select whiuch one they need in a specific case  
HB: Ben is right. For a controlled vocabulary, it is good to collect faivoured names into base classes. Incident is needed to understand why and how we need new defs  
LP: +1  
AB: what about ultra-short pulse related charscteristics? Can we have then by using sbclassing  
LP: Yes, it is a reasonable choice  
MK: beam is not at all a straght line in EM  
AB: might not be neede to do subclassing  
WdN: are the units too restrictive   
SB: only examples are provided here  
RO: In neutron scattering, the incident polarisation, we use in % rather.  
BW: The concept defines electro-magnatic polarisation   
AB: let us go back to use the units NX_ANY fr incident and final polarisation.    
All accepted that.  
SB: Note that these are different concepts, so we may want to call them differently   
AB: In fact, we should have clear concepts   
BW: incident_polarisation_stokes is indeed defined in NXbeam   
AB: let us bring it to a vote with the comments  

