Telco 20260527
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 27th May, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

- ZOOM VC link: [https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1](https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1)
- Meeting ID: 675 9369 9249
- Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

- NIAC 2026
- PRs
  
Present  
-------

SB, AB, RB, PC, TC, BW

Minutes  
-------

- NIBUGS/NIAC 2026
  - AB: 11 abstracts received
  - RB: it would be good to hear all users talk
  - TC: talks from NIAC members?
  - SB: my contribution is also made to NOBUGS anyway, so it is not necessary on the NIAC meeting. 
- Membership
  - SB: we are still waiting for 3 responses before the vote could be started
- PR #1631
  - TC: since we are deprecating PURL, we need a vote for it
  - PC/SB: Is deprecated available as a flag for items?
  - TC: why not discouraged (instead of deprecated)?
- PR #1626
  - AB: checked and merged
- PR #1624
  - SB: I have checked and approved
  - TC: what about @lru_cache(maxsize=None)
  - SB: cache is used to store processed XML files, no limit is specified so it is not needed to adjust frequently
  - AB: merged
- PR #1610
  - SB: there is no way to specify default value for enumeration
  - RB: maybe it could be introduced that the first enumeration item is always specified 
  - SB: data provider may just want to leave this field empty
  - TC: Note that positive direction was defined beforehand and it allowed the actual handedness to be specified without the need of the enumeration field.
  - AB: let us try to clarify the documentation. Proposal is provided, but let us check how it is answered.
- PR# 1590
  - AB: as proposed, it should go to contributed
  - TC: we can change the location
  - PC: adjust the copyright year
  - AB: approved
- PR #1619, #1610
  - no news since last telco


June Telco
----------
Please help to choose the date by responding to [the poll](https://doodle.com/group-poll/participate/b8z5ArLe) by June 4.

We are planning to hold the telco in the regular slot of UTC 15:00. Check your local time to avoid scheduling surprises!
