---
title: Telco 20171107
permalink: Telco_20171107.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20171107
==============

Date
----

Tuesday,  7 November, 16:30 CET (+0100)

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>


Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   Report from [ICALEPCS HDF5 Workshop](https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/12/)
-   Github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github label)
    - [definitions PRs & issues marked as "telco"](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/labels/telco)
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: AB, EW, MB, MK, PJ, TSR

### Report from HDF5 Workshop
 * C++ HDF5 API presented by EW
 * Filters - HDF Group optentially has plans to sell them for writing, reading will be free. Do we want to compete with our repo?
 * HDF Group still aims to be more open source - opening their bug tracker and linking to a git repo from their web pages

### Github Issues
Two old ones have been looked at now: NXlog has the time dataset changed from NX_INT to NX_NUMBER (was probably TSR's editing error in the first place). And we decided some English language is required near the "data" dataset in Nxdetector to ensure people don't think 4 dimensions are mandatory.

Two tickets have been generated by Ray and require further input from him.  Mark B produces more example files for him to digest and will send link to Dawn source code that deal with axes for plotting.
Validation shall already check for dimensions for _indices etc in NXdata. Maybe a feature to extract the information would help.


### Next Meeting
[Telco 20171128](Telco_20171128.html)

### AOB
Short meeting...
