Telco 20260610
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 10th June, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

- ZOOM VC link: [https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1](https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1)
- Meeting ID: 675 9369 9249
- Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

- NIAC 2026
- PRs
  
Present  
-------

SB, AB, HB, PC, WdN, RB, FdA, FS, BW, HG, BB

Minutes  
-------

- NIAC 2026
  - 11 abstracts were submitted +1 from AB. AB: will mail all presenters.
  - AB: any special goal what we shall focus on? Cutting the number of issues/PRs for the next release, or something more ambitious?
  - BW: Triage is needed: presorting of issues and cleaning them up in advance would be really helpful
  - HB: relationship between COMCIFS and NIAC? This would also need preparation!
  - AB: work with HDF5 on performance of parallel r/w access?
  - BW: is it our role? we should focus on the definitions and not on performance
  - AB: why not 2 subgroups: (a) issues and PRs. (b) cleaning contributed definitions
- PR #1610
  - no feedback yet.
  - AB: let us mail the author and ESS representaives to see if they are OK with this
- PR #1619
  - response from MR. NXemmission_lines which lists NXemmission_line instances
  - PC: worried about having too many named buckets. We may create a single class for such groupping 
  - AB: something like NXgathering
  - SB: why not to use NXobjects for this purpose? Inherit and specify it further in the application definitions according?
  - PC: we could pick up a name from here: https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Thesaurus:group
  - AB: why not NXcollection
  - SB/WdN: current definition says that no validation shall happen inside NXcollection
  - AB: volunteered to make a suggestion for cleaning this situation
  - AB: why is it a problem to even "repeat" element in multiple emmission_line instances? in HDF5 one can use link instead of a copy
  - WdN: it should be OK
  - proposal is submitted to the issue
- PR #1561
  - AB: let us reach out to RO.
- PR #1533, $1412
  - AB: invite LP for the next Telco. Revise the proposal, or close it.
- PR #1240
  - AB: PC, can you review and merge if accepted



July Telco
----------
Please help to choose the date by responding to [the poll](https://whenavailable.com/invite/C0JGaDjybCqtzREnHbEe) by Jun 26.

We are planning to hold the telco in the regular slot of UTC 15:00. Check your local time to avoid scheduling surprises!
