---
title: Telco 20160712
permalink: Telco_20160712.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20160712
==============

Date
----

Tuesday, 12th July, 16:30 Central European Summer Time (Copenhagen)

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (there is a github
    label now)
-   items for NIAC (or code camp) to prepare
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: FAA, HJB, MK, AB, EW, TSR

### Github Issue

Support for HDF5 1.10 in NAPI:
<https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issues/421>

If the test run that should be good enough to merge. Release 4.4.2 can
go out after that merge, without the changes to fix attribute arrays on
HDF4 and XML in C++.

This adds support for reading SWMR files that are closed and VDS. This
is great. Further support for these advanced features in writing data or
reading while writing would require changes to the API and or how the
library is used. For example in SMWR you cannot create new objects once
in SWMR mode. Adding VDS support would be even harder. Eugen's PNI
library currently has support for neither.

So for the moment that will be the extend of 1.10 support we offer, for
NAPI in maintenance mode - unless there are convincing cases presented
by the community,

### Preparations for NIAC and code camp

Not all able to attend the whole week.

Will need to elect new officers and re-confirm NIAC members. Letters of
support need to be produced ahed of the meeting (September) for this.

### Next Meeting

Bit of a summer break, due to leave. So the next one will be [Telco
20160809](Telco_20160809.html "wikilink")
