---
title: Telco 20180529
permalink: Telco_20180529.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20180529
==============

Date
----

Tuesday, 29 May, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>


Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   Feedback from the Definitions Release
-   Preparations for NIAC this year
-   Updates on NeXus for pixelated STEM
-   Github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github label)
    - [definitions PRs & issues marked as "telco"](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/labels/telco)
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: PJ, TSR, AB, Dieter Weber

### Celebrate the release

The release was a success. No problems were encountered. Thanks go to PJ.

### Pixelated STEM

Interested parties had a
productive Telco meeting earlier today. STEM community is implementing
a file writing scheme that follows what was developed at the meeting.

There will be some adjustments as the suggested use of
NXpositonier is not widely adopted in NeXus. NXtransformations work better for
encoding the geometry.
There are some open questions regarding scanning, which could be addressed with
the new NXlog scheme or the standard scan rules.


Other areas of interest are default plots (NXdata), for which a solution exists, and
OS level thumbnails which hopefully can be distributed soon. See:
https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/381

Dieter will send out a new draft pixelated STEM file to the NeXus mailing list to gather feedback
and develop a next iteration.


### NIAC

Still no update from the organisers on exact dates NOBUGS and related events.
Making other arrangements is becoming more likely.


### Next Meeting
[Telco 20180619](Telco_20180619.html)
