---
title: Telco 20161213
permalink: Telco_20161213.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20161213
==============

Date
----

Tuesday, 13th December, 16:30 Brussels Time

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   github issue of the day
    -   [\#433: can this be
        closed?](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/433)
    -   [\#425: can close when 433
        closes](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/425)
    -   [\#511: pixel as NX\_length
        update](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/511)
    -   [\#486: web site
        redesign](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/486)
-   Future of wiki
-   The [`uncertainties`
    attribute](http://wiki.nexusformat.org/2014_axes_and_uncertainties)
    (such as in
    [NXdata](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/blob/master/base_classes/NXdata.nxdl.xml#L325)
    and
    [NXcanSAS](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/blob/NXcansas-492/applications/NXcanSAS.nxdl.xml#L424)):
    -   Can we rename to be the singular `uncertainty`?
    -   Can we add this to `fieldType` in `nxdl.xsd` as a [common
        attribute of any
        field](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/blob/master/nxdl.xsd#L578)
        (such as
        [`units`](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/blob/master/nxdl.xsd#L599))?
    -   What to do about [this issue
        (\#370)?](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/370)
-   update on features or interfaces
-   note we now have [unit testing of NXDL
    files](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/512) and
    [travis-ci](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/513)
    on all pushes
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: AB (first half), HJB, MK, PJ, RO, EW, TSR

### Github

#### 433

New Ticket for the remaining work on NXatom\_site opened, this one
closed.

#### 425

Done, closed.

#### 511

Decided for “px” as “unit”. Should be allowed for detectors only.
Herbert makes a branch to test this out.

#### 486

There were some problems getting the test site to compile. Those are
resolved. By the next meeting Pete and Ray think they can have a test
site up to demonstrate the plans for the new home page.

### Wiki

If we move having the main website on new foundations, dropping the wiki
has consensus. The main content this is kept up to date there is the
NIAC related information and these minutes. No collaborative editing by
community members is happening. Even for that the workflow would be
sensible through github pull requests. Maintaining pages on a low
traffic wiki is more difficult than working with a repo.

### uncertainties

According to the decision by the NIAC this is allowed everywhere. A
plural vs singular change was no longer requested. canSAS works on a
“resolution” field and will come up with a full example that would
inform the documentation of this feature.

### interfaces vs features

Progress is made, nothing to show at the moment.

### Next meeting

[Telco 20170117](Telco_20170117.html "wikilink")

### AOB

Travis now texts the nxdl commits to the definitions repo (broken
shortly after the meeting, by work on ticket 511, expect operations to
resume shortly).
