---
title: Telco 20180619
permalink: Telco_20180619.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20180619
==============

Date
----

Tuesday, 19 June, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>


Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   Tool to convert NXpdb to PDB/CIF
-   Preparations for NIAC this year
-   Updates on NeXus for pixelated STEM
-   Github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github label)
    - [definitions PRs & issues marked as "telco"](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/labels/telco)
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: AB, HJB, TSR

### NXpdb tools

PDB to NeXus works, going back still needs some effort.
Done in CBFlib.

### NIAC
HJB offered to host the meetings in his living room.

There is a bit of a backlog of tasks to be worked on in NeXu
(documentation and defintions). Code camps in the traditional
sequence before a NIAC meeting end up preparing new things for the NIAC to decide.
The small congregation today thought that having the NIAC meeting after NOBUGS and the code camp
following that would put some more focus on implementing existing NIAC decisions.

TSR is in contact with SIC and will send out a proposal to the nexus committee mailing list, before
fully publishing the event.

### pixelated STEM

TSR still needs to update the proposal with NXtransformations instead of the NXpositioners.
If someone wants to volunteer to do that earlier, they are welcome to.

### Github issue

We're still benefitting from the recent release and there are no marked issues to discuss.

### Next Meeting
There are not many items on the telco agendas at the moment, other than preparing the NIAC.
Summer is there with holiday so we skip forward a few weeks before we have the next meeting:

[Telco 20180814](Telco_20180814.html)
