---
title: Telco 20150811
permalink: Telco_20150811.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20150811
==============

Date
----

Tuesday, 11th August, 8am PST, (5pm CEST, 4pm BST, 11am NY, 10am IL+TN)

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g2e2ayoq57srpi2g4zv2c2ewbua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome
-   Virtual Dataset
-   3D Detectors: slowest, slow, fast vs. x, y, z
-   code (napi) cmake update and release timelime
-   Documentation update, summary of ticket review
    -   definitions: name-tag-attribute:
        <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/411> and issue
        399
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: EW, HJB, MK, PJ, TSR, AB

Virtual Dataset: EW will contact Felipe to extract more specific
requirements for an HDF5 API and feed that into THG.

napi and tools release: slow progress. No testers have reported any
success or failure with the current state. This may improve when tools
are build as well as people has no ready way to test the build
otherwise.

3D detectors: While the route to just define pixel\_size\_z looks easy,
this is not very general. Z may not coincide with the global z-axis and
it may correspond to any dimension in the data array (volume). So TSR
will prepare a generic proposal for n-dimensional detector data, with
m&lt;=n spatial dimensions. EW is keen to test this on his next beamtime
in September.

Ticket 411: Merged during the meeting.

Windows build: Problems arise due to lack of development environment,
which should not be a hard requirement to have installed in order to
work on documentation. We will revert to old-style make files. More
background in github tickets.

Next meeting: [Telco 20150827](Telco_20150827.html "wikilink")
