---
title: Telco 20160315
permalink: Telco_20160315.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20160315
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 15th March, 16:30 Central European Time (Copenhagen)

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   <http://nexusformat.org> main landing page update
-   github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (there is a github
    label now), otherwise we pick a random one
-   github branches - prune stale ones?
-   Dectris Eiger JSON format
-   cnxvalidate testing
-   NAPI release and download webpages (including definitions kits),
    Debian packages
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: AB, PJ, MK, HJB, TSR, EW

### Main Landing Page

RO is preparing something, no update today

### Github Issues

Closed a few that on short inspection didn't require any more more.

Recent work on updating copyright notices was welcome

Stale Branches: Identified some candidates for deletion and some that
have valuable commits.

### Eiger JSON Streaming Format

Eiger has three outputs: NeXus/HDF5, Monitor and Streaming (zeroMQ)

For the streaming the detector uses some JSON for metadata (plus binary
blob). The JSON string labels are short without hierarchy.

After a discussion: There is nothing we can do to help their broken
mapping. JSON could be fixed easily, but maybe for their needs that is
good enough as well. Will pick up the discussion if there is input or a
proposal from Dectris or another party interested to engage.

### cnxvalidate

No testing reported - PJ was happy to hear about the tool though.

### NAPI release

All releases downloadable from d.n.o/kits should be on github. Same is
true for definitions. d.n.o/kits can go (redirect to github).

Debian: Eugen is planning to make progress some time this year.

### Next meeting

[Telco 20160329](Telco_20160329.html "wikilink")
