---
title: Telco 20220707
permalink: Telco_20220707.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20220707
==============

Date
----

Thursday, 7th July, 15:00 UTC

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Connect
-------
* ZOOM VC link: [https://psich.zoom.us/j/66384346019?pwd=aG13QldUaVA1Yjdwc1RzL0FyVE13QT09](https://psich.zoom.us/j/66384346019?pwd=aG13QldUaVA1Yjdwc1RzL0FyVE13QT09)
* Meeting ID: 663 8434 6019
* Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

* Welcome guests and new members
* Review previous meeting minutes and actions: [June Telco](Telco_20220602.html), [Code Camp](https://www.nexusformat.org/CodeCamp2022.html)
* Recent issues on Github (especially those labelled with "telco")
  * [definitions](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)
  * [code](https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)

Present
-------

BW, HB, RB, WdN, CZ, AB, HG, SB, PC

Minutes
-------

* BW thanks everyone who helped in the Code Camp - we accomplished a lot of work. PJ said that he would provide a summary of our achievements but I haven't received it yet. We can see some indication of the efforts from the [github insights page](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/graphs/commit-activity)
* HG, WdN and SB all agree that it went well and thanks those contributing.
* SB reports that he saw that NXptycho has a bug - SB will submit an issue.
* BW also wants to submit an issue from a question on the mailing list about NXxas.
* Dectris have been asking about data required by NeXus (especially NXmx) that they don't have easy access to (need cooperation from the beamline staff). HB says that being soft on the issue in the past has not improved the situation (non-required data is not written voluntarily) so wants to be strict now.
* WdN doesn't understand why Dectris should be so concerned about so much metadata - the beamline staff should take responsibility. SB answers that the situation is kind of inherited by such metadata being included in previous file formats in the MX field and is common to lots of vendors. AB will add something to the issue and also push some discussion at the ACA-SIG meeting.
* BW will organise the next telco for the middle of August. [Poll](https://strawpoll.com/polls/PKglz4b1Qyp)


