---
title: Telco 20211115
permalink: Telco_20211115.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20211115
==============

Date
----

Monday, 15th November, 14:00 UTC

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Connect
-------
* ZOOM VC link: [https://psich.zoom.us/j/69154353855?pwd=RW00eXRGa09tNWRHU202SDdLaTJzZz09](https://psich.zoom.us/j/69154353855?pwd=RW00eXRGa09tNWRHU202SDdLaTJzZz09)
* Meeting ID: 691 5435 3855
* Passcode: 16022

Agenda
------
   * Welcome new members
   * Review previous meeting minutes and actions: [September Telco](Telco_20210915.html)
   * Recent issues on Github (especially those labelled with "telco")
     * [definitions](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)
     * [code](https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)

Present
-------
BW, RO, RB, MK, TM, PC, HB

Minutes
-------
PC presented proposal for describing a ROI in [issue #944](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/944)
* BW asks about representing a different use case where the "parent" dataset is not recorded (e.g. the detector output is limited to a subset of pixels and only this subset is recorded).
* MK asks if this really belongs in NXdetector since it looks more like processed data than raw data
* Would be better to be described more generally than only as a child of NXdetector

BW describes discussions with Dectris about [issue #940](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/940) ([summary](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/940#issuecomment-968922229))
* RO likes restricting data variable labels to NX_NUMBER but is not opposed to [issue #945](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/945)
* Different types of link are already [allowed](https://github.com/nexusformat/NIAC/issues/77#issuecomment-716643766) and their target can be discovered in HDF5. Perhaps we need to document and advertise which calls can/should be used

Draft [application definition for XPCS](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/943)
* MK thinks that the variables are not very descriptive (e.g. g2), but PC says that it is standard nomenclature in the field
* the scripts from RB could be useful to illustrate the structure of a proposed application definition
* BW suggests that the scripts from RB could be added to the nexus_format package to make it more easily available to people planning new application definitions
* RB will try to make his script more resilient against minor issues often found in contributed application definitions

Should we have another virtual NIAC in Spring 2022? There are plans for a hybrid NOBUGS in Autumn 2022.
BW suggests encouraging more discussion on github before starting video discussions so that we can be more time-efficient.

Next meeting in mid December







