---
title: Telco 20150715
permalink: Telco_20150715.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20150715
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 15th July, 12:00 BST

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g2e2ayoq57srpi2g4zv2c2ewbua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome
-   code (napi) cmake update and release timelime
-   definitions: name-tag-attribute:
    <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/411>
-   Documentation update, summary of ticket review
-   DLS Auto generation questions:
    -   Identification of non scannable fields i.e. the scan rules say
        that everything can be scanned and hence have additional
        dimensions, but this does not make sense for some things, which
        should only be reported once.
-   3D Detectors: slowest, slow, fast vs. x, y, z
-   CXI file format <http://cxidb.org/cxi.html>
-   Next meeting - July 27 or 28 at 8am Pacific Time, so Aaron can join
    (5 CEST, 4 BST, 11 NY, 10 IL+TN)
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: HJB, EW, MB, TSR (summer has apparently arrived everywhere in
the northern hemisphere)

cmake for code  

Eugen has made some progress and will have finished the configuration
and build of the main library by the next meeting. Binding and tools
will follow then, not necessarily in that order. hdf4 and xml should not
be disabled by default but be integrated when available at least for
this release. Equally building without hdf5 is not yet an error.

pull request 411  

With the placeholder removed that seems a reasonable approach to fix
issue 399, although not the final verdict for placeholders. But that may
require a separate NXDL tweak. (Found out after the telco: PJ had one
comment that the default “specified” should be specified. TSR commented
in the ticket.)

Reducing number of open tickets  

We closed 3 tickets during the telco and discussed issue 407 which Eugen
will investigate.

scan dimensions for everything?  

Rationale: Some fields, like instrument/name are unlikely to change
during a scan. If scan rules didn't apply an API could return nice and
simple strings instead of arrays of them. Consensus: No change. Since
for now we allow scan rules in all cases which is the most general way,
having a special rule for a low number of fields is not deemed to help
much. Rather have a simple rule than simple special cases. However:
There are cases other than scan rules where dimensions can be added
(detector/distance can be per pixel), so it should be clear what the
added dimensions are. That's unresolved for now.

3D detectors  

fast and slow works for 2D. An extension for 3D might be fast, slow,
slower or slowest. However if scan rules apply the slowest detector
dimension may not be the slowest of the overall dataset. HJB suggests
fast, second\_fastest, third\_fastest, fourth\_fastest, fifth\_fastest
and so on ad nauseam as the general case. No real conclusion reached.
The disconnect between fast/slow vs. x/y was not discussed.

CXI file format  

The NeXus compliant version of it is so close to NeXus that integrating
that as an application definition seems almost easy. We'll invite them
to the next teleconference.

Next conference  

[Telco 20150728](Telco_20150728.html "wikilink")
