Telco 20250516
==============

Date
----

Friday, 16th May, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

- ZOOM VC link: `https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09 <https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09)_
- Meeting ID: 652 7209 1306
- Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

- PRs
  
  - [EM - 1423](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1423)
    volunteers for reviewing: AB, HB
  - [APM - 1422](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1422)
    volunteers for reviewing: BW

Present
-------

SB, AB, RO, FS, PC, - MarkusK (FAIRmat) 

Minutes
-------

**NXprocess - https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1559**

  - AB: IS tere any open conversations?
  - MK: No, everything is fine
  - RO: Can we merge it as is?
  - AB: It is a clarification of documentation, so it does not require a vote and can be merged
  - Telco all agreed
  - MK: Can an NXprocess contain another NXprocess
  - PC: sequence_id shall be used for stating the order
  - MK: yes, the processes at the same level can be sequenced, like this, but if there are subprocesses
  - RO: Yes, the sequence shall be interpeted within the grop containing the processes
  - PC: please put a clarification on this to the docuementation of sequence
  - RO: Sure, and then the merge will be done

**NXparameters - https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1560**

  - MK: NXparameters is a nice concept to hold parameters for algorithms of any type
  - RO: statements on least-square fitting parameters could be phrased so that it does not exclude other use cases
  - PC: NXfit (as subclass of NXprocess) is coming to the standard and could also be used for specific use cases. NXpeak, NXbackground are also coming
  - RO: I should check NXfit and the new options coming in now, so we may not need both solutions co-existing.
  - MK: How to handle the units for attributes
  - SB: there is the convention of using @attrname_units to be able to specify the units for @attrname
  - RO: if not given the unit of the hosting Field should be inherited (applied) automatically
  - AB: another open question is on 'TERM'
  - PC: a fix for this problem is coming in MPES PR, where renaming and clarification will solve this issue

**NXtransformation (handedness) - https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1563**

  - PC: described the problem, that handedness of the coordinate syste to be bale to properly interpret a rotation angle.
  - AB: the NXtransformations chain (via @depends_on) tells which coordinate system we are in
  - PC: the wording in NXtransformations documentation needs to be changed to be able to support left-handed rotations, too
  - AB: OK, conversations are actually resolved. If approved, can be merged
  - PC: approved
  - AB: bug fix is done, so we do not need another vote
  - Telco agreed

**APM - https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1422**

  - SB: reorganisation is done as requested
  - AB: originally reviewed by BW, so let us ask him again for another review

**EM - https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1423**

  - SB: restructuring is done
  - AB: dependencies are resolved. New reviewer from NCEM (Peter Ercius) is invited. Next steps suggested:
    - MK could compile a 2 page overview including a figure on how NXem file should be composed
    - enabling Peter to review the proposal
  - SB: this should lead not only to an accepted standard, but also to a common publication for the EM community
  - AB: NeXus supports and NXem should also be useful for:
    - data exchange between data collection and data processing
    - data provenance for describing experiment details
  - SB: what is the expected timeline for the extended review process?
  - AB: few weeks should be enough for the extended review
- Membership Votes
  - requests for votes are out, responses received, for the next meeting we can have our new members also invited.
