Telco 20260429
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 29th Apr, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

- ZOOM VC link: [https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1](https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1)
- Meeting ID: 675 9369 9249
- Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

- NIAC 2026
  
Present  
-------

SB, AB, BW, FdA, PC, RB, CZ, PM, DS, ZM


Minutes  
-------

- NOBUGS 2026
  - AB: 3 abstracts
  - FdA: 1 week extension (now: May 10)
  - AB: there is still place for advertisements
  - AB: @FdA, can we have a public webpage, like last time?
  - If official invitation letters are needed, just let us know
- Use of identifiers in NeXus files (e.g. reference to experiment type ontology)
  - PM: work in progress, best practice paper is in preparation
- Status of next release (https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/milestone/16)
  - AB: check the issues
- PR #1626
  - CP: changes are mainly on reformatting. We could anyway update our tooling to ruff (instead of flake and black)
  - CP: some tests are added, and also precommit
  - AB: this sounds fine personally, but the question is if the nexus community is also happy with the changes. We should add a corresponding note in README.md, so it can also be updated by the PR.
  - Telco agreed on adding the notes and implemented it.
- PR #1624
  - AB: pending on SB
  - SB: will check it
- PR #1621
  - AB: clean edit for adding a new type of ID: W3ID
  - PM: maybe IRI would be a better choice as discussed in an OSCARS project meeting with SB. It is not too specific, but still clearly defines the intent.
  - AB: let  us make an update of the PR.
  - PM: volunteered to do so.
- PR #1619
  - BW: Chemists type names are used and they could be improved, to avoid potential confusions. XAS, XPS do need these terms.
  - PM: Would it make sense that instead of importing these lines, We could refer to them by using identifiers.
  - AB: same could apply to NXelement which represents the full Periodic Table. This needs to be updated alll the time, a new element is discovered.
  - BW: even worse with intensities of element lines (energy), but it might be just fine as is.
  - CP: note that NXchemical_composition, NXatom, and a few contributed definitions (like NXsubstance) are also effected.
- PR #1613
  - CP: rendering choice does not work properly. The proposal would change the ordering of elements in the documentation (compared to the XML). We may want to introduce buttons in the documentation for reordering.
  - AB: It is not a problem to have reordering, so it could be approved as a bugfix.
  - Telco agreed.
- PR #1610
  - AB: can be made open for vote.

May Telco
---------
Please help to choose the date by responding to [the poll](https://doodle.com/group-poll/participate/dPKkAO1b) by May 7.

We are planning to hold the telco in the regular slot of UTC 15:00. Check your local time to avoid scheduling surprises!
