---
title: Telco 20150728
permalink: Telco_20150728.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20150728
==============

Date
----

Tuesday, 28th July, 8am PST, (5pm CEST, 4pm BST, 11am NY, 10am IL+TN)

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g2e2ayoq57srpi2g4zv2c2ewbua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome
-   CXI file format <http://cxidb.org/cxi.html>
-   Virtual Dataset
-   3D Detectors: slowest, slow, fast vs. x, y, z
-   code (napi) cmake update and release timelime
-   Documentation update, summary of ticket review
    -   definitions: name-tag-attribute:
        <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/411> and issue
        399
    -   issue 407 (windows builld)
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

STFC had a network outage coinciding with this meeting, making this wiki
and the NeXus mailing lists inaccessible. So joining was complicated.
Most items deferred to the next meeting.

Present: EW, MK, TSR, Aaron Brewster, Filipe Maia

NAPI: Eugen has made progress on the CMake build of the library and is
working on the tests.

CXI File Format: Filipe is not opposed to the idea of creating an
application definition of the NeXus compliant variant (with attributes)
of his file coherent imaging file format. Should go into the contributed
area first. Filipe also agreed to join the next telco.

Virtual Dataset: Filipe would like to see an HDF5 API that provides
different predefined views of the data volume, for example as image and
as a whole. If that in turn was picked up by MATLAB or other products,
analysis code developers could just read image by image without having
to worry about hyperslabs. In principle that might be possible with
virtual datasets. Eugen to ask HDF group. No consensus whether that was
a priority or effort should be directed at training users.

Aaron had another item on virtual dataset, but his audio was not
working. Due to the initial delays we deferred the discussion to the
next meeting, which is again slotted to allow US East coast
participation. If that works for the rest of the US we might stick to
that.

Next meeting: [Telco 20150811](Telco_20150811.html "wikilink")
