Telco 20260120
==============

Date
----

Tuesday, 20th Jan, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

- ZOOM VC link: [https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1](https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1)
- Meeting ID: 675 9369 9249
- Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

- NeXus Ontology update
- Release
  
Present  
-------

AB, SB, FdA, HG, PC, BW, FS, WdN  - LukasP, RubelM, MarkusK (FAIRmat), FreddieA (STFC)

Minutes  
-------
- FA: NXtextlog for time based text messages. Note that NXnote only has 1 timestamp.
    - MK: NXlog could be generalized to NX_CHAR_OR_NUMBER,
    - FA: yes, it is an option, but NXlog would become no longer plottable
    - PC: NXnote allows textlogs
    - FA: yes, but it would be nice to have timestamps attached to each separate log message
    - SB: NXnote could be extended to host a timestamp array, too.
    - AB: NXtextlog could be a base class of the other logs. I like NXtextlog as proposed
    - BW: +1 (adding something new is more backward compatible and cleaner than modifying an existing and widely used standard)
    - SB: +1
    - AB: Accepted the suggestion
    - SB: PJ suggested to accept it in contributed and when it is used vote for accepting it in the standard)
    - AB: Yes, it should go to contributed without voting, but reviewed, and when it is used in AppDef, we should vote on it.
- NeXus paper
    - MK: paper is drafted and initial review is done. We are welcoming NIAC contributions
    - AB: I still need to review, NIAC2024 attendees should also be invited, but we should not miss contributions from NIAC, so we should make open for the full NIAC
    - MK: this needs to be cross-checked first
- NIAC 2026
    - AB: LBNL is volunteering to host it in Q3, alternatively we could be a satellite of NOBUGS in Sept in Hamburg
    - MK: Hamburg would be better suited
    - AB: FdA could be a local host for NIAC2026 attached to NOBUGS
- NeXus Ontology
    - SB suggestion to move to w3id, but also keep existing purl registry. PR for regenerating the ontology is prepared. Note that PM requested to keep purl registration and update it to point to the new IRI.
    - HG: W3ID is preferred, and we could also gather there all PAN related ontologies.
- Patch release 2026.01:
    - Bug in groupings
        - PC fixed it, and also other issues are now fixed in PR #1606, #1607, #1608. Nate that 1606 needs a vote.
    - PR #1561 - NXgoniometer
        - no progress reported since last meeting
    - PR #1560 - NXparameter documentation
        - AB: will launch a vote
    - PR #1589 - NXspm to contributed
        - LP: what is the status with its merge?
        - BW: has reviewed, and no more technical experts have been found for further reviews
        - SB: Thanks for BW for the review, it can be merged to contributed. More review is expected only after the incubation phase.
    - Vovest needed for 2026.01: PR #1606, PR #1560


Feb Telco
---------
Please help to choose the date by responding to [the poll](https://doodle.com/group-poll/participate/e5w9P6xb) by Feb 5.

We are planning to hold the telco in the regular slot of UTC 15:00. Check your local time to avoid scheduling surprises!
