---
title: Telco 20190911
permalink: Telco_20190911.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20190911
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 11 September, 15:00 CEST (+0200)

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>

Agenda
------
   * Code camp options? (Diamond is no-go)
   * (From August) definitions: [next release](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/milestone/8) ([releases](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/releases)) : new: [base/NXpdb](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/blob/master/base_classes/NXpdb.nxdl.xml) & [contributed_definitions/NXcxi_ptycho](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/blob/master/contributed_definitions/NXcxi_ptycho.nxdl.xml)
   * Issues to raise at HDF5 workshop next week?
   * Prune stale branches from [definitions](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/branches/stale)?

Minutes
------

Present: BW, TM, PJ, AB, SC


Release
-------
Release issues to be worked on before we make the next release:
https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/milestone/8
   * Aim for February/March release.
   * Why are [PDB](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/614/files) and [NXptycho](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/628/files) not visible in the current master?
     - they **are** in current master but neither are in applications
     - [base/NXpdb](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/blob/master/base_classes/NXpdb.nxdl.xml)
     - [contributed_definitions/NXcxi_ptycho](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/blob/master/contributed_definitions/NXcxi_ptycho.nxdl.xml)
[Release Procedure](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/wiki/Release-Procedure)

AB points out that his recent changes to [NXmx](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/commit/6e837341abbe3f61a68b65f6d441f9f77c4228de) adds further detail to beam_center_x and beam_center_y than is present in [NXdetector](https://manual.nexusformat.org/classes/base_classes/NXdetector.html). BW responded that while it is not ideal to have diverging documentation, an application definition can make some deviations when needed.
   
Prune Stale Branches
------
Branches that are not ahead of master at all give no value and have now been deleted.

Code Camp
------
Maybe PJ can organise something at Argonne in mid-November. Otherwise we should organise a virtual event. We certainly should do plenty of cleaning up in github for the next release.

HDF5 Workshop
---------
No further specific issues.

Other Business
--------
   * SC to get some more graphic design input for a new logo, especially with more "corporate" colours and including a mu.
   * Next meeting aiming for mid-October.
   



