---
title: Telco 20160907
permalink: Telco_20160907.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20160907
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 7th September, 16:30 Central European Summer Time
(Copenhagen)

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda (Tobias may be a few minutes late...)
-   github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (there is a github
    label now)
-   further items for NIAC (or code camp) to prepare
-   NAPI update
-   web site redesign
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: RO, HJB, EW, MK, TSR

### Welcome

Tobias was indeed late as the browser wouldn't connect.

### Github

No flagged item. Deferred detailed ticket work to upcoming code camp.

### NIAC and Code Camp Agenda

AB may have an issue to bring up with NXprocess. Could use some
preparation. Will discuss more detailed proceeding in the next Telco.

### NAPI update

Didn't happen as planned. EW put it on the list for tomorrow.

### Website Update

No progress.

### AOB

#### Report from Basel

Dectris and their users have reaffirmed their commitment to NXmx. All
looks promising. A recently published article by Dectris mentions
storing data in some BioHDF format. That appears to be some editorial
mistake. We've been promised some more information

#### HDF Group

No reply from the HDF group on participation in the code camp or NIAC.

#### NeXus remote object servers

Ray presented the concepts of his successful project to serve a
sliceable NeXus file across the network. Useful in cases where you don't
want or need all the data locally. We discussed the relative merits of
doing that at the NeXus level or in plain HDF5 and also how relevant the
use case is to all science areas. There is also the competing idea that
the data stays remote and the algorithm or visualisation is sent to the
place holding the data. A further idea is to have persistent global
identifiers to the data(sets), similar to external links. Across the
network and curated like DOIs. We can discuss how much we as “NeXus”
want to be part of defining such an infrastructure. Possibly at the NIAC
or code camp.

### Next meeting

Last meeting before the code camp: [Telco
20160928](Telco_20160928.html "wikilink")
