---
title: Telco 20220225
permalink: Telco_20220225.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20220225
==============

Date
----

Friday, 25th February, 14:00 UTC

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Connect
-------
* ZOOM VC link: [https://psich.zoom.us/j/68711884689?pwd=YlF5VmtNbDdrOHJkYXc2YTlGWWMxdz09](https://psich.zoom.us/j/68711884689?pwd=YlF5VmtNbDdrOHJkYXc2YTlGWWMxdz09)
* Meeting ID: 687 1188 4689
* Passcode: 183302

Agenda
------

* Welcome new members
* Review previous meeting minutes and actions: [January Telco](Telco_20220131.html)
* Recent issues on Github (especially those labelled with "telco")
  * [definitions](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)
    * [NXxpcs](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/943)
      is a new contributed definition (to be an application definition)
    * add [`NX_ARBITRARY_UNITS`](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/980):
      Does this **need** a NIAC vote?
  * [code](https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)
* NeXus ontology and namespace usage
  * ?add to agenda for next NIAC?
* Spring virtual NIAC
* Autumn hybrid NIAC

Present
-------
BW, CZ, HB, PJ, FA, SB, LG, RB, HG, AB, RO, WDN

Minutes
------
   * NIAC on March 3rd, 4th, with special effort to have a chorum on the 4th.
   * SB to make pull requests
   * Ontology email aacount - special email address that forwards to nexus-committee? Or is it just a login ID?
   * NXxpcs app def - want xpcs data in a common format - is ready for contribution
   * New type of units "arbitrary units"
   * SB prefers to calculate combination units on the fly
   * RO asks what is  supposed to be the validation consequences of arb units? 
   * BW says that au is problematic anyway because it is a nonstandard description that is commonly used (add to proposal #921)
   * SB thinks arb units is equivalent to unknown units.
   * RO and PJ can agee on "unkown" units as a compromise (NX cansas can consider using this)
   * PJ will make the changes in NXxpcs
   * LG wants to be able to state photon flux differently from NXmx since XFELs provide photons differently
   * Problem is that a pulse has unknown time
   * Other problem is that NDXL currently doesn't easily allow requiring one of a set of fields.
   * AB and HB think this is just a bug and short name should be optional - AB will fix it
   * SB wants to have a nexus workshop in Germany 17-18 March to bring people and projects together
   * would like someone to introduce the NIAC, sample environment, validation, data processing/visualisation
   * BW volunteers to talk at the meeting.
   * AB thinks that he could also speak but needs to check beamtime schedule.
   * AB will add the NIAC vote needed tag to #942
   * SB asks about inheritance - HB says we should look at UML, which adresses this question. HB thinks there is value in having specific inheritance rules. BW would like to see a specific proposal to avoid endless ideological discussions.
   * SB asks about linking between fields and how a link can be required in an app def (using NXDL)
   * AB says that NeXus is meant to be independent of the file format implementation (i.e. HDF5 is not a requirement)
   * SB asks if someone from ESRF could speak at the workshop about NeXus use or utilities? WDN will discuss availability with colleagues.
   * BW will publish a NIAC schedule asap
  
