Telco 20251209
==============

Date
----

Tuesday, 9th Dec, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

- ZOOM VC link: [https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1](https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1)
- Meeting ID: 675 9369 9249
- Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

- NeXus Ontology update
- Release
  
Present  
-------

SB, AB, HG, BB, ZM, CP, BW, (FS, CZ) - LukasP, RubelM, MarkusK (FAIRmat)

Minutes  
-------

- NeXus Ontology
    - SB: new PR is up to update the ontology to the latest release
    - HG: purl.org is not so comfortable to use, because of downtimes, and that only a single person can administrate it. Alternative is: w3id.org (it is managed via github) We may need a NIAC decision to change the registry
    - MK: it must be published and made persistently available (see Zenodo); +1 for going away from purl.
    - AB: no vote needed as it is a technical issue which does not change NeXus and its definitions. Call for comments needs to be sent out though.
    - SB volunteered to do so.
- Patch release 2026.01:
    - Issue #1600 - copyright dates
        - PC: fix the copyright dates - easy. PC can run the script and set up a corresponding PR next year.
        - SB: we do not need a vote for it as it is just a technical fix.
    - PR #1599 - release curation period for contributions
        - SB: someone needs to review it. 
        - BB would do so, but BW just didi it and approved
    - PR #1594 - NXparameters in NXfit_function:
        - LP: It is already reworked and can be closed
    - PR #1589 - SPM in contributed:
        - SB: It only goes to contributed, no vote is required
        - RM: It is now ready for merge
        - ZM volunteered for review 
        - BW: has already reviewed and could not find further reviewers.
    - Bug in groupings
        - PC: Grouping must be fixed (related to NXtomo classes), a PR will be set up for this. No vote needed, but needs review.
        - MK can review it.
    - PR #1561 - NXgoniometer
        - PC has reviewed and commented.
        - SB: it needs a vote. AB can start it if open discussions are finished.
        - PC: patch release can include it if it is finished and accepted by then. 
        - BW: improvement would be needed
        - AB: check with RO if example can be included
    - PR #1560 - NXparameter documentation
        - LP: conflict is resolved, changes are uploaded
        - MK: CI/CD is still failing, but it can now be fixed as it is a purely technical issue,
        - SB: If only a small technical fix is needed, vote could be started on the main content. 
        - AB: will launch a vote 

Jan Telco
---------
Please help to choose the date by responding to [the poll](https://doodle.com/group-poll/participate/dwgGPkrd) by Jan 2.

We are planning to hold the telco in the regular slot of UTC 15:00. Check your local time to avoid scheduling surprises!
