---
title: Telco 20240515
permalink: Telco_20240515.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20240515
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 15th May, 15:00 UTC


Connect
-------
* ZOOM VC link: [https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09](https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09)
* Meeting ID: 652 7209 1306
* Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------
* issues
* contributed defintions

Present
-------
AB, SB, HB, BW, RB, PJ, WdN, RO, PC, FS, CZ, BB, PM + Arnold Paecklar (ILL)

Minutes
-------
* NOBUGS - registration is open; NIAC meeting attendence needs registration only for in person participation  
  - NIAC2024 webpage: AB starts putting it up, WdN will finalise
  - schedule: similar to that of 2022

* NXstress - https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1039  
  - WdN: easystress consortium is proposing it:
analysis: diffraction data / ToF / … -> peak fit -> reflection -> strain -> stress (geometry is important)
beam intensity_profile: is specialised NXbeam
  - AB/AP: description of the scientific use case
  - RO: why peak parameters are inside NXdata 
  - WdN: plotable, but not necessary has to be NXdata
  - SB: please note our coming proposal: https://fairmat-nfdi.github.io/nexus_definitions/classes/contributed_definitions/NXpeak.html#nxpeak
  - RO: there is also a convention to map lmfit parameters inside NXprocess
  - WdN: fit results for all peaks
  - SB: we should talk to see if we can align with our NXpeak. Layout is nice that it does not suggest a group for each peak
  - PJ: peak parameters could be described by NXparameters
  - SB: NXcollection: it is not validated
  - PJ: use NXparameters instead. Note that /NXparameters/term should be TERM (and NX_ANY not NX_CHAR)
  - AB: let us set up a PR. Who can review?
  - SB: I can represent FAIRmat developpers

* Contributed definitions - https://github.com/orgs/nexusformat/projects/4/views/1
  - BW: non-fairmat contributions are collected
NXcxi_ptycho: simplistic, but responds to community need -> AB: should go to a PR for standardisation
NXcontainer: does not seem to be able to properly describe the use case -> AB: also with others: let us assign proposers for better book-keeping and be able to assign responsibles and ownership
  - SB: FAIRmat deinfitions are collected (2 groups: to be standardised; keep in incubation) -> AB: make a project for those we want to put into the PR for Sept. Let us assign reviewers, so we can prepare the PR early enough.


June Telco
--------------

Please help to [choose the date by responding to the poll](https://doodle.com/meeting/participate/id/bDJlL65e) by June 7. We are planning to hold the telco in the regular slot of UTC 15:00. Check your local time to avoid scheduling surprises!
