---
title: Telco 20211215
permalink: Telco_20211215.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20211215
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 15th December, 14:00 UTC

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Connect
-------
* ZOOM VC link: [https://psich.zoom.us/j/65356830562?pwd=VFJ1R2ROUzU2bWZ1MjloOERYVy9mUT09](https://psich.zoom.us/j/65356830562?pwd=VFJ1R2ROUzU2bWZ1MjloOERYVy9mUT09)
* Meeting ID: 653 5683 0562
* Passcode: 387565



Agenda
------
   * Welcome new members
   * Review previous meeting minutes and actions: [November Telco](Telco_20211115.html)
   * Next release of definitions : when?  (was scheduled for 2021-10)
   * Recent issues on Github (especially those labelled with "telco")
     * [definitions](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)
     * [code](https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue)

Present
--------
BW, HG, LG, RB, CZ, SB, PJ, PC, WdN, AB, HB

Minutes
------

New Members
---
   * WdN is new ESRF rep where there is a new data acquistion that writes HDF5/NeXus
   * LG is new rep for Eu XFEL, also NeXus compliant
   * SB presents FAIRmat infrastructure project that he is working in and producing lots of new draft base classes and application definitions.
   * SB asks LG about links between ontology and data files.
   * CZ is new rep from ORNL (had some technical issues with microphone volume), primarily workin with Neutron sources.

Issues
---

   * PJ asks if we still need an environment.yml file in the documentation repo
      * noone sees a need for it
   * HG NFDI project would want to coordinate with FAIRmat, rather than working in parallel.

Next Release
---
   * PJ aims to have a somewhat annual release of the definitions
   * Schedule releae for March 2022

Issues
---

   * PJ suggest dropping support for python <3.7 since 2.6 is at the end of its support period.
      * PC suggests also removing any use of the six module since it shouldn't be need when there shouldn't be any Python2 code
      * PC further suggests switching to h5py version3 - PJ thinks it may not be needed (happens automatically)
   * PJ asks if we are ready to cut the cord from the Jenkins server? PC thinks yes. PJ waiting for acknowledgement from FA.
   * PJ discusses adopting Github workflow
      * Github (branch, not yet main) will autonatically build the docs on every push and will publish it if there is a release tag provided.
      * Will wait for FA before implementing it in main.
   * HG asks for details about the yml file that PJ asked her to create for the ontology repo
      * PJ says it is mostly for setting up the appropriate python/conda environment required to run the code.
   * PC presents PR#957 for describing a POI.
      * mostly complete, but still an issue with declaring which fields are optional.
   * PC has also been working on NXbeam to define the reference plane of the polarisation.


Next meeting to be in the second half of January, 2022. [poll](https://doodle.com/poll/u4bpr3tzwz8cnw2h)



