Telco 20260722
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 22th July, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

- ZOOM VC link: [https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1](https://eu02web.zoom-x.de/j/67593699249?pwd=GPvAopqNNsikUS36NltUb4q695YsCG.1)
- Meeting ID: 675 9369 9249
- Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

- NIAC 2026
- License
- PRs
  
Present  
-------

SB, AB, HB, FdA, PM, RO, PC, RB, HG, BW - LukasP (FAIRmat)

Minutes  
-------

- NIAC 2026
  - 12+1 confirmation so far (and 2 more submitted abstract)
  - AB: do we need extra time for so many talks? 
  - SB/RB: It was already proposed to cut talks from NIAC members, if there many other contributions.
  - AB: great that we have so many contributions, but we may need an extra day for normal business (maybe a followup meeting)?
  - BW: What about a codecamp? or a well-prepared and preannounced schedule so voting goes quicker
  - RO: ISIS representative would be needed and also representative for the Mantid project and its use with NeXus
- Preparatory Subcommittees
  - PRs (select and categorize PRs for easy-looking/difficult): PM, PC, FS
  - Contributed Definitions (select definitions for being voted on): FdA, WdN, RB
    - In Issue #1639, a table is prepared to track the status, contributor are contacted to collect info on current status 
    - PM: what is the criteria for a CD to be accepted and integrated to the standard?
    - AB: CD is an official place provided for the communities to prepare drafts before they want to promote it. As soon as a community is fine with a contribution, this can actually be voted on (a strict 1 year incubation is not really needed).
    - PM: what about requiring specifically 2 facilities who produce such data and 2 applications which use it?
    - AB: maybe 1+1 would be enough, but a list of users would be really interesting
    - RO: next to contributed definitions, it would be nice to require also example data
    - AB: This is a good idea, and the example data repo should be used for this
  - Code-camp day for NIAC agenda preparation:
    let us organise it on early Sep
- PRs
  - LP: definitions are converted to python by FAIRmat, but license may need to adapt (LGPL3 vs. Apache2)
  - RO: Would that mean that pynxtools becomes part of NeXus? The nexus python API is nice to be used.
  - HB: Lawyer needs to review the license questions
  - PM: in fact, if derived work is distributed, Apache will probably not fit
  - SB: if only a code generator is distributed, it may resolve the license incompatibilities



Aug Telco
----------
Please help to choose the date by responding to [the poll](https://whenavailable.com/invite/1hQznQNAA8JkN6iarFpD) by Aug 7.

We are planning to hold the telco in the regular slot of UTC 15:00. Check your local time to avoid scheduling surprises!
