---
title: Telco 20200224
permalink: Telco_20200224.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20200224
==============

Date
----

Monday, 24 February, 15:00 CET (+0100)

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>

Agenda
------
   * 2020 NIAC and Code Camp dates surrounding [NOBUGS2020](https://indico.desy.de/indico/event/24321/overview) (Oct. 14-16). [Proposed dates](https://doodle.com/poll/7c39uppbs7qwsveh) are:
      * NIAC meeting on Oct. 12-13th (i.e. Monday-Tuesday just before NOBUGS)
      * Code Camp on either Oct. 10-11th, or 17-18th (i.e. weekend before, or after)


Minutes
-----
Present: BW, MK, FA

NIAC
------
   * All agreed that the NIAC tradition is to meet together with NOBUGS and that there is no alternatives being proposed.
   * All agreed that Oct. 12-13th is the obvious best choice for dates adjacent to NOBUGS2020.

Code Camp
------
   * MK suggested that Oct. 19-20th could be better dates to avoid working over the weekend. BW would rather not lengthen the travel further than necessary.
   * All agreed that after the NIAC made more sense than before since it would allow enacting NIAC decisions.
   * BW suggested that we could advertise the Code Camp as an opportunity for software developers (i.e. NOBUGS attendees) to work through practical NeXus-related problems together with the experts.
   * After some discussion, all agreed that Oct 17-18th was the better choice.

Other Business
----
   * BW disappointed in attendence, considering lots of people answered the poll to decide the telco date. Perhaps this highlights the importance of the Outlook calendar event that was forgotten this time.
   * Next telco to aim for mid March.


