---
title: Telco 20151001
permalink: Telco_20151001.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20151001
==============

Date
----

Thursday, 1st October, 8am PST, (5pm CEST, 4pm BST, 11am NY, 10am IL+TN)

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g2e2ayoq57srpi2g4zv2c2ewbua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   Next meeting
-   code camp registration and technicalities
-   Generic proposal for spatial and other axes on nD Detectors:
    (slowest, slow, fast) -- new use cases
-   Documentation update, summary of ticket review
    <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/266>
-   geometric shapes and operations (mantid/mcstas geometry conversion)
-   code (napi) cmake update and release timelime
-   CXI update (Mark B)
-   Look at a new container class (what is that?)
-   How do we define the X and Y drive directions of a scan
    (clarification, we know them, but how do we get back to the
    NXPositioner class which specifies all the information)?
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: HJB, EW, MK, MB, TSR, PJ, AB

-   Next meeting

[Telco 20151014](Telco_20151014.html "wikilink")

-   code camp

ACTION: Everyone register, EW to send reminder to mailing list

-   Generic proposal for spatial and other axes on nD Detectors:
    (slowest, slow, fast) -- new use cases

EW had a look and found no problems (so far)

MB has no problems with the current proposal, but would like to add the
use case of recording the scan intend. One way of doing that would be to
use the old NeXus “target” linking scheme to point to an NXpositioner or
so. He'll generate a proposal.

HJB leaves the meeting due to conflicting commitments.

-   Issue 266 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/266>

Pete clarified that the attempted old solution didn't lead anywhere
promising. So having Freddie looking at this with fresh eyes is a good
idea.

-   shapes and boolean operations

Mantid does require not only positions of elements on the beamline, but
also their shapes. For visualisation but also modelling and simulations.
In the discussion it became clear that knowledge about the adopted CIF
geometry is not as widespread as we would have liked. (See ticket 397.)
Tobias will add some information there.

The existing NXgeometry or NXshape were not suggested as good starting
points. Either working from what mantid currently uses, or starting from
some general purpose geometry package would be reasonable. Avoiding the
re-inventions of wheels for object placement.

-   code (napi) cmake update and release timelime

Will put of a reduced feature set release soon and ask for volunteer
effort to help with things further down our priority list.

-   CXI format, status report.

Mark B mumbled something, could make out some words no coherent meaning.
ACTION: MB get better mike.

-   sample container information

MB mentioned very careful background subtract schemes with half sample
containers in the beam (upstream and downstream) and the requirement to
provide more information on the holder material. He will propose
something and potentially provide a drawing if helpful.

-   AOB

none (timeout)
