---
title: Telco 20151014
permalink: Telco_20151014.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20151014
==============

Date
----

Wednesday, 14th October, 17:00 Central European Time (Copenhagen)

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/g2e2ayoq57srpi2g4zv2c2ewbua>

Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   code camp update and plans
-   sample container proposal
-   recording scan intend proposal
-   Generic proposal for spatial and other axes on nD Detectors:
    (slowest, slow, fast) -- new use cases or ready?
-   geometric shapes and operations (mantid/mcstas geometry conversion)
    update
-   code (napi) cmake update and release timelime
-   CXI update (Mark B) this time with better microphone
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present:

Eugen (only listening), Herbert, Andreas from Dectris, Pete Jemian, Mark
K.

-   Andreas brought up some question regrading trigger\_delay\_time
    which resolved into a clarification that the one in NeXus base class
    is the hardware trigger\_delay\_time. A new,
    effective\_trigger\_delay, time in proposed which will sum all
    trigger delays, from hardware or software or else.
-   As the main players for the other topics on the Agenda were not
    present, we discussed the NXvalidate white paper. Many points were
    resolved. Mark K will update the white paper with the results of the
    discussions shortly. It was felt that it is more important to get
    the things done rather then haggle for a long time about the optimal
    solution and details.
-   The discussion returned to NXmx. Uptake of NeXus/HDF-5 is still
    difficult. The problem are the data analysis package maintainers.
    Herbert suggested to have a workshop and help them get NeXus
    implemented around one of the big crystallographic conferences next
    year. Dectris may be supporting this workshop.
-   The next Telco is [Telco 20151104](Telco_20151104.html "wikilink")

