---
title: Telco 20171128
permalink: Telco_20171128.html
layout: wiki
---
Telco 20171128
==============

Date
----

Tuesday, 28 November, 16:30 CET (+0100)

<!-- end of autogeneration -->

Hangout Link:
<https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua>


Agenda
------

-   Welcome and agree Agenda
-   Update on multiple detector modules
-   Github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github label)
    - [definitions PRs & issues marked as "telco"](https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/labels/telco)
-   Next meeting
-   AOB

Minutes
-------

Present: EW, RO, HJB, MK, AB (briefly), PJ (mainly from the AOB part)

### Welcome
Happened.

### Multiple Detector modules
No update.

### Github issues
Deferred discussion on new pull request by RO (#602) until people had a chance to look at it.

Agreed __target__ attributes should not have mandatory values defined in application definitions. That rules out working with subentries. Ticket #600. MK agreed to implement a workaround in the validation tool until the NIAC has formally edited the application definitons.

Adding z_pixel_offset (#591) agreed to merge and get NIAC approval later. Backward compatible change.

### Next Meeting
[Telco 20180116](Telco_20180116.html)

### AOB
Some discussions around RO's pull request:
* specifying both _errors and @uncertainties should be avoided. This should be clarified in the documentation.
* data collected on irregular grids may leave you in situations where plotting with proper x and y axis is not straightforward or possible.
* with the versioning reaching maturity it will be possible to eventually delete things of base classes or application definition, as opposed to marking things deprecated. We're not yet in this state but that is a goal.
