=================
Telco 20190621
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20190621
         :name: telco-20190621
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20190621_date

      Friday, 21 June, 15:00 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20190621_agenda

      -  Recording NXbeam spectra at XFELs
      -  JSON representation
      -  Possible EU resources
      -  2019 NeXus Code Camp

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20190621_minutes

      Present: BW, MK, AB, PJ, HB

      .. rubric:: Recording NXbeam spectra at XFELs
         :name: recording-nxbeam-spectra-at-xfels

      -  AB raised an issue with recording spectra in NXbeam at an XFEL,
         where the spectrum delivered can be different for each shot. It
         can also change between being monochromatic and polychromatic.
      -  PJ pointed out that the NXcanSAS application definition
         illustrates a possbilbe solution to the issue.

      .. rubric:: JSON representation
         :name: json-representation

      -  HB will be attending a number of meetings over the summer to
         discuss what data the MX community want Dectris detectors to
         provide in JSON format. This will culminate in the HDR-MX
         meeting at Diamond (6-7th November) where he will be seeking a
         final decision on the issue. This form of data will become
         common enough to be a kind standard and HB wants to push it
         towards being NeXus-like.
      -  BW states that the main mission of NeXus is to standardise the
         organisation of data and that the container format is a
         secondary concern. HDF5 is currently the preferred container
         format and where we are putting our development resources.
         However, we still encourage the use of NeXus principles and
         definitions for the organisation of data in other container
         formats such as JSON.

      .. rubric:: Possible EU resources
         :name: possible-eu-resources

      -  MK reported that some EU projects on data catalogs and related
         topics could be interested in providing resources for
         increasing NeXus adoption by employing a person to help
         scientists at new facilities to design and write application
         definitions.
      -  HB notes that it would be important for such a person to be
         knowledgable in programming in orderto be effective in such a
         role.
      -  MK and BW will follow up with the responsible people and try to
         make something happen.

      .. rubric:: 2019 NeXus Code Camp
         :name: Telco_20190621_2019-nexus-code-camp

      -  HB is keen for organisation to begin on the next NeXus Code
         Camp. He would like to have face-to-face discussions with a
         group of NeXus committee members about the outcomes of the
         HDR-MX meeting in November. Therefore, immediately the HDR-MX
         meeting at Diamond in November could be convenient.
      -  PJ points out that Americans require a long time to get
         approval for travel outside the USA, so the sooner the code
         camp is organised, the better.
      -  MK points out that this years NOBUGS conference is in Hamburg,
         which we traditionally follow.

      .. rubric:: Next Telco
         :name: Telco_20190621_next-telco

      -  HB would like to aim for July 15 or 16. Poll:
         https://doodle.com/poll/ddvv4x7tz5m3fqek
