=================
Telco 20180905
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20180905
         :name: telco-20180905
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20180905_date

      Wednesday, 5 September, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20180905_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  DOIs for definition versions (Zenodo)
      -  NIAC Preparations
      -  AOB
      -  Next meeting

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20180905_minutes

      Present: RO, PJ, TSR, MB

      .. rubric:: DOIs via Zenodo
         :name: dois-via-zenodo

      The suggestion to create DOIs for definition releases was
      converted to a ticket. Seems like a good idea.

      .. rubric:: NIAC & NOBUGS Preparations
         :name: Telco_20180905_niac--nobugs-preparations

      TSR to submit a state-of-the-union talk. Topics would be:

      -  (no longer so) new website/wiki
      -  OFF geometry
      -  Mantid Geometry support - weights
      -  Axes (Diamond)
      -  STEM NeXus
      -  Grants
      -  PDB, if ready

      For the NIAC MB has two more topics than what is already
      registered as NIAC tickets:

      -  NXtyco
      -  CSG volumes

      New officers need to be elected.

      .. rubric:: AOB
         :name: Telco_20180905_aob

      The 2018.8 milestone release had no real improvements commited
      against it. We move all open and closed ticket to the next one
      (2019.1).

      The NIAC can decide on priorties for the open tickets and
      establish a roadmap for NeXus for the slightly longer term.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20180905_next-meeting

      `Telco 20180926 <Telco_20180926.html>`__
