=================
Telco 20161123
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20161123
         :name: telco-20161123
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20161123_date

      Wednesday, 23rd November, 16:30 Brussels Time

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20161123_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  Discuss topics from code camp and NIAC meeting, check minutes

         -  Here are the `minutes <NIAC2016Minutes.html>`__ of NIAC 2016

      -  github issue of the day

         -  `Pull Request: NXdata is now optional, as of
            NIAC2016 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/496>`__
         -  `add NXDL_contact
            attribute <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/451>`__
         -  `remove unused
            attributes <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/330>`__
         -  `make distinction between required and optional content in
            manual <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/277>`__

      -  pixel as NX_length
      -  web site redesign - future of wiki
      -  Can we rename the ``uncertainties`` attribute (such as in
         NXdata) to be the singular ``uncertainty``
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20161123_minutes

      Present: MK, HJB, EW, AF, AB, PJ, RO

      .. rubric:: Minutes from NIAC
         :name: Telco_20161123_minutes-from-niac

      Generally accepted with minor corrections. All action items should
      be understood and covered in tickets or already done.

      Versioning is ongoing with good progress. A lot of the workflow
      will smooth out overtime and become clearer with use, we hope.

      .. rubric:: Github issues
         :name: Telco_20161123_github-issues

      Pull request accepted with minor changes.

      NXDL contact attribute idea was rejected as detracting from proper
      forums like mailing lists and NIAC.

      Unused attributes: ref and refindex seem to be unused indeed. They
      should be deprecated now. (and exercise in versioning as well.)

      .. rubric:: pixels as length
         :name: pixels-as-length

      Not a great idea, but follows current practice at experiments.
      Should be accepted. Will figure out a way to allow that and what
      the proper unit name for pixels is.

      .. rubric:: Postponed Items
         :name: postponed-items

      We ran out of time on:

      -  web site redesign - future of wiki
      -  Can we rename the ``uncertainties`` attribute (such as in
         NXdata) to be the singular ``uncertainty``

      They have been put on the next meetings    agenda with some other
      items that came up.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20161123_next-meeting

      `Telco 20161213 <Telco_20161213.html>`__
