=================
Telco 20160120
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20160120
         :name: telco-20160120
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20160120_date

      Wednesday, 20th January, 16:30 Central European Time (Copenhagen)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20160120_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  CSPAD progress
      -  cnxvalidate progress
      -  github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (there is a
         github label now), otherwise we pick a random one
      -  version numbers
      -  Issues in Armando   s emails
      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20160120_minutes

      Present: EW, MK, AB (first half), Armando (second half), Ray
      Osborn, HJB, TSR

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20160120_agenda-1

      revised for the meeting

      .. rubric:: CSPAD
         :name: Telco_20160120_cspad

      Herbert and Aaron are making some progress. Current files use
      absolute paths for external links, that could be discouraged.

      .. rubric:: cnxvalidate
         :name: Telco_20160120_cnxvalidate

      Has 50 tests passing and is ready for testing by friendly users.
      Tickets to produce a validating tool are to be closed in code and
      definitions repositories and cnxvalidate has it   s own issue
      tracking.

      .. rubric:: issue of the day
         :name: issue-of-the-day

      -  resolved open question about NXtransformations
      -  EW accepted pull request for trigger additions to NXdetector
         (plus related ticket)
      -  closed call for validation tool

      .. rubric:: version numbers for classes
         :name: version-numbers-for-classes

      While there is version number on the class definition files this
      is not used in the current infrastructure (and cannot easily be
      used). This should be discussed at the next NIAC.

      There was also a discussion about a process to make simple
      editorial changes to classes or backward compatible additions.
      Consensus was that formal criteria enforced by a tool (like three
      votes on the issue tracker) would not be a good solution. For the
      moment we will do this by consensus in the telco and via pull
      requests to be accepted by a second person. Also to be discussed
      at the NIAC.

      .. rubric:: issues raised by Armando
         :name: issues-raised-by-armando

      There are two problems: subentries and NXdata.

      NXdata appears to have some documentation problems which Ray will
      confirm and raise a ticket for.

      Subentries are compatible with what Armando wants. Ray will send a
      summary of the discussion to the mailing list separately for a
      wider audience.

      .. rubric:: Next meeting
         :name: Telco_20160120_next-meeting

      Eugen did not like Wednesdays: `Telco
      20160202 <Telco_20160202.html>`__
