=================
Telco 20220707
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20220707
         :name: telco-20220707
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20220707_date

      Thursday, 7th July, 15:00 UTC

      .. rubric:: Connect
         :name: Telco_20220707_connect

      -  ZOOM VC link:
         https://psich.zoom.us/j/66384346019pwd=aG13QldUaVA1Yjdwc1RzL0FyVE13QT09
      -  Meeting ID: 663 8434 6019
      -  Passcode: nexus

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20220707_agenda

      -  Welcome guests and new members
      -  Review previous meeting minutes and actions: `June
         Telco <Telco_20220602.md>`__, `Code
         Camp <../codecamps/CodeCamp2022.html>`__
      -  Recent issues on Github (especially those labelled with
         "telco")

         -  `definitions <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue>`__
         -  `code <https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue>`__

      .. rubric:: Present
         :name: Telco_20220707_present

      BW, HB, RB, WdN, CZ, AB, HG, SB, PC

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20220707_minutes

      -  BW thanks everyone who helped in the Code Camp - we
         accomplished a lot of work. PJ said that he would provide a
         summary of our achievements but I haven"t received it yet. We
         can see some indication of the efforts from the `github
         insights
         page <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/graphs/commit-activity>`__
      -  HG, WdN and SB all agree that it went well and thanks those
         contributing.
      -  SB reports that he saw that NXptycho has a bug - SB will submit
         an issue.
      -  BW also wants to submit an issue from a question on the mailing
         list about NXxas.
      -  Dectris have been asking about data required by NeXus
         (especially NXmx) that they don"t have easy access to (need
         cooperation from the beamline staff). HB says that being soft
         on the issue in the past has not improved the situation
         (non-required data is not written voluntarily) so wants to be
         strict now.
      -  WdN doesn"t understand why Dectris should be so concerned about
         so much metadata - the beamline staff should take
         responsibility. SB answers that the situation is kind of
         inherited by such metadata being included in previous file
         formats in the MX field and is common to lots of vendors. AB
         will add something to the issue and also push some discussion
         at the ACA-SIG meeting.
      -  BW will organise the next telco for the middle of August.
         `Poll <https://strawpoll.com/polls/PKglz4b1Qyp>`__
