=================
Telco 20171026
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20171026
         :name: telco-20171026
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20171026_date

      Thursday, 26 October, 14:00 BST (+0100)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20171026_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  Report from [Code Camp 2017]
      -  AOB
      -  Next meeting

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20171026_minutes

      Present: Hangout: RO, EW, PJ Code Camp (in person): TSR, MDJ, MC,
      JH, MK, PC, MS, MB

      .. rubric:: Report from Code Camp
         :name: report-from-code-camp

      Essentially as captured in the minutes.

      Ray suggested the use of the nexusformat python package for
      features. That was already being tried, but would need additions
      to the package. Those would be welcome.

      Discussion and clarification on the example file with axes with
      Ray.

      .. rubric:: AOB
         :name: Telco_20171026_aob

      Ray: People in the US are working on a materials database similar
      to ICAT. Question to think about: Should there be a tag for the
      things to drag into a catalogue.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20171026_next-meeting

      `Telco 20171107 <Telco_20171107.html>`__
