=================
Telco 20191212
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20191212
         :name: telco-20191212
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20191212_date

      Thursday, 12 December, 15:00 CET (+0100)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20191212_agenda

      -  Code camp details
         (../codecamps/CodeCamp2020.html)
      -  New executive secretary
      -  Membership renewal voting
         (../niac/Membership_Dates.html)

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20191212_minutes

      Present: BW, AB, DW, HB, MK, PJ, FA, PC, HG

      .. rubric:: Code Camp
         :name: Telco_20191212_code-camp

      -  PJ suggests making public presentation on NeXus during CC. He
         will schedule an event.
      -  MK wants us using github issues to make a list of items for the
         CC.

      .. rubric:: Introductions
         :name: introductions

      -  MK suggests doing a round of introductions since some new
         people are joining.

      .. rubric:: New Executive Secretary
         :name: new-executive-secretary

      -  FA volunteers to take up the position.
      -  BW to organise an email vote.

      .. rubric:: Membership Renewals
         :name: Telco_20191212_membership-renewals

      -  BW says renewals are going well, we have 6 votes complete and
         most of the remainder in progress.

      .. rubric:: NXmx
         :name: Telco_20191212_nxmx

      -  HB and AB has made progress is refining the proposed
         application definition.
      -  Not sure if it will be ready for formal acceptance at the CC,
         but AB will present the current state at that time.
      -  HB intends to send a revised NXmx document for the new year.

      .. rubric:: Other Business
         :name: Telco_20191212_other-business

      -  PJ and colleagues are looking to make app def for photon
         correlation spectroscopy
      -  BW would like to have a vote on a new logo at the next full
         NIAC meeting.

         -  BW encourages people to develop their preferred logo version
            in limited groups
         -  PJ suggests sharing logo version on dropbox (to keep them
            out of the google index)

      -  DW will suggest another participant
      -  Next telco during CC, but maybe have a longer remote session
         than the usual 1 hour telco. PJ suggests that starting 1 hour
         later than the usual telco time (ie 16:00 CET) would give best
         chance for intercontinental collaboration.
