=================
Telco 20180418
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20180418
         :name: telco-20180418
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20180418_date

      Wednesday, 18 April, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20180418_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  Github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github
         label)

         -  `definitions PRs & issues marked as
            'telco' <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/labels/telco>`__

      -  Review of tickets for the upcoming NXDL
         `milestone <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/milestones>`__
      -  Preparations for NIAC this year
      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20180418_minutes

      Present: HJB (from a moving vehicle), MK, TSR

      Small and short meeting.

      .. rubric:: Github issues
         :name: Telco_20180418_github-issues

      Looked at:

      -  `editorial corrections to
         NXlog <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/618>`__:
         We agreed that the pull request captures the intent of the NIAC
         better than the current state of the NXDL and we will merge the
         correction. Before that we also need to add the ``@scaling`` to
         ``cue_timestamp_zero`` so the identical timestamps as in
         ``time`` can be used. TSR will make the change, MK will merge.

      -  `Add new geometry
         definitions <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/601>`__:
         Agreed that ``<choice>`` is the best approach here, rather than
         fudging this in some other way. Needs changes to the rendering
         of the manual and the validation tool. MK volunteers to do the
         latter. PJ shall be approached for the NXDL work.

      .. rubric:: Milestone
         :name: Telco_20180418_milestone

      Not discussed due to lack of key people.

      .. rubric:: NIAC and Code Camp Preparations
         :name: Telco_20180418_niac-and-code-camp-preparations

      DOE problems, as always. But SIC offered to host in connection
      with NOBUGS. Could be an option to have NIAC after NOBUGS and Code
      Camp after NIAC, to implement decisions rather than preparing new
      ones. Will discuss next time with hopefully more people.

      .. rubric:: AOB
         :name: Telco_20180418_aob

      EM definition progress: There was an email today that the
      proposers are about to create an example file to illustrate the
      ideas. This is going well.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20180418_next-meeting

      `Telco 20180502 <Telco_20180502.html>`__
