==============
Telco 20250127
==============

Date
----

Monday, 27th Jan, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

- ZOOM VC link: `https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09 <https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09>`__
- Meeting ID: 652 7209 1306
- Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

- canSAS?
- PRs

  - `1408 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1408>`__
  - `1410 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1410>`__
  - `1413 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1413>`__
  - `1415 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1415>`__
  - `1419 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1419>`__
  - `1519 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1519>`__
  - `1528 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1528>`__
  - `1424 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1424>`__
  - `1423 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1423>`__
  - `1422 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1422>`__
  - `1425 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1425>`__
  - `1421 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1421>`__
  - `1521 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1521>`__
  - `1523 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1523>`__

Present
-------

SB, AB, HB, PC, BW, LG, WdN, PM, RO + LukasP, MarkusK (FAIRmat)

Minutes
-------

**PRs**

- Votes to start on: 1521, 1528, 1408, 1507, 1525, 1519, 1413

- `1396 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1396>`__ - NXdata

  - SB: left comments

- `1521 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1521>`__ - Open Enumeration

  - AB: ready for vote

- `1528 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1528>`__ - NXpid

  - SB: BW made suggestions for improvements
  - AB: ready for vote

- `1408 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1408>`__ - NXbeam

  - AB: NXcomponent is separated, ready for vote

- `1525 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1525>`__ - NXcomponent

  - AB: NXbeam - Is not it a component?
  - SB/PC: It is a characterization at a certain location.
  - Majority of Telco participants agreed to consider it not to be a component for now.
  - AB: How to handle documentation if it is inherited? Is it good not to render inherited information?
  - HB: No, it is better to provide a flat and complete documentation
  - SB: Agree, and it can be done as a separate task, but NeXus documentation building does not do that now.
  - PM: javadoc mentions all inherited, but details only new things
  - BW: same with python docs in general
  - AB: let us make a new task for implementing this extended rendering of documentation.
  - AB: NXcircuit, shall be removed from here.
  - RO: NXobject PR#1507 is also bringing new items as inherited ones to these classes. Hence, those could be omitted, too. These 2 PRs should go hand in hand.
  - AB: Let us add MinOccurs=0 to specify explicitly the optionality.
  - AB: let us vote on it.

- `1507 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1507>`__ - NXobject

  - AB: after the fixes, it can go for voting

- `1519 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1519>`__ - NXlens_em

  - AB: changes are required according to new NXcomponent
  - MK: only NXxraylens exists. We can either make a new common superclass and inherit from that one, or make new concepts.
  - BW: not much of overlap between different types.
  - PC: copyright dates need to be fixed.
  - AB: 'value' is not too specific, we could use lens_excitation
  - BW: 'power_setting' is better.
  - MK: It is fine.
  - AB: Let us then implement it, and vote for it.

- `1410 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1410>`__ - @target in NXdata

  - RO: This is supported as described by LinkType
  - SB: If this can be used for any FieldType, it shall be just made clear in documentation.
  - HB: hdf5 allows new constructs, but nexus definitions must be clear
  - PC: 'target' is also used at Diamond to specify where data is coming from.
  - AB: Problem is registered in the PR. NIAC shall resolve.

- `1419 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1419>`__ - NXinstrument

  - LP: Already approved in Grenoble, it is just updated to follow the other approved changes.
  - AB: It is reviewed already. After a final read (by PC), it could be merged.

- `1413 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1413>`__ - NXsample and sample_component

  - AB: 'physical_form' could be an enumeration.
  - LP: open enumeration can be a solution when it will be available.
  - PM: there are some plans at HZB for sample description which could be also checked out.
  - AB: update to align with the new form of NXcomponent. After that it can also be moved to a vote.

Feb Telco(s)
------------

Please help to `choose the date by responding to the poll <https://doodle.com/group-poll/participate/dJzK0EDd>`__ by Jan 26.

We are planning to hold the telco in the regular slot of UTC 15:00. Check your local time to avoid scheduling surprises!