=================
Telco 20201208
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20201208
         :name: telco-20201208
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20201208_date

      Tuesday, 8 December, 14:00 UTC

      .. rubric:: Connect
         :name: Telco_20201208_connect

      -  ZOOM VC link:
         https://ukri.zoom.us/j/97459887639pwd=TFRuU3lYUWRiNGoxcC9MQkFQTW1iZz09
      -  Meeting ID: 974 5988 7639
      -  Password: 243582
      -  Dial in number details: https://ukri.zoom.us/u/ag6oYfxOO
      -  Test connection: https://ukri.zoom.us/test

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20201208_agenda

      -  Welcome new members
      -  Review previous meeting minutes and actions: `September
         Telco <Telco_20200930.html>`__, `NIAC
         2020 <../niac/NIAC2020minutes_concluding.html>`__
      -  Discuss responses to `Future of NAPI
         questionaire <https://lists.nexusformat.org/pipermail/nexus/2020/001140.html>`__
      -  Issues on Github labelled with "telco"

         -  `definitions <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atelco>`__
         -  `code <https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atelco>`__

      .. rubric:: Present
         :name: Telco_20201208_present

      Present: WG, SC, RO, BW, MK, FA, RB, PJ, PC, HG, SB, TM, MO

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20201208_minutes

      The resolutions from NIAC2020 were `all
      passed <../niac/NIAC2020.html#decisions>`__

      BW will check that tickets related to these decisions are closed.
      Any issues that are remaining, were not discussed, or
      inconclusive, will be handled at a future NIAC

      RB had previously mentioned a program he has developed for
      generating example NeXus files from NXDL. He described how this
      had been recently extended to also generate example h5py files,
      which all agreed was a useful addition.

      The recent code camp was discussed and it was agreed that the
      event had been good at focussing effort and making progress and so
      another virtual code camp would be arranged for 2021. BW will
      create a poll to choose a preferred date, sometime in
      february/march/april. We will discuss code camp agenda items at
      next TC.

      PJ mentioned the recent GitHub change of default master -> main
      branch. He will investigate the impact of making this change over
      the next month or two.

      SC mentioned the recent policy change at Travis CI and how this
      was causing problems, PJ suggested we move to GitHiub actions. He
      shared a couple of useful links on `migrating travis to githuib
      actions <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/learn-github-actions/migrating-from-travis-ci-to-github-actions>`__
      and `pythin
      testing <https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/guides/building-and-testing-python>`__
      WG also shared an example of how this had been done in `another
      project <https://github.com/ORNL/ncio/blob/master/.github/workflows/ci-github-actions.yaml>`__

      SC has been working on including nexus in Linux package
      repositories and it is now available in `Fedora
      linux <https://dl.fedoraproject.org/pub/fedora/linux/releases/33/Everything/x86_64/os/Packages/n/nexus-4.4.3-6.fc33.x86_64.rpm>`__

      PJ is continuing to look at the generation of html anchors, which
      are related to persistent identifiers (PIDs) proposal `presented
      by HG at
      NIAC2020 <https://github.com/nexusformat/NIAC/issues/73>`__

      The sphinx version of the user manual seemed to have stopped
      building on the STFC server. Action FA to check (turns out to be
      missing python package after O/S upgrade; now fixed)

      .. rubric:: NAPI Future
         :name: napi-future

      The feedback from the questionaire circulated to the mailing list
      was dicussed. Most facilities are either no longer using NAPI, or
      are building their own copy and able to maintain that themselves.
      A few people are still depending on a maintained NAPI, namely the
      Mantid and McStas software and a planned upgrade at the LANL
      facility. The bindings being used here were HDF4 and HDF5, nobody
      reported use of NAPI XML bindings.

      It was decided to keep NAPI in maintenance mode, but to make a few
      changes to ease workload:

      -  drop support for XML bindings from NAPI
      -  Review dropping HDF4 support if including becomes difficult in
         future (due to e.g. HDF library changes or dropped support)
      -  provide a pre-compiled staticly linked binary of NXCONVERT that
         supports all formats, together with examples of how to use it
         to convert XML/HDF4 files -> HDF5
      -  The old python bindings would be kept in the repository for
         now, but not be built/bundled in any distribution kit

      RO suggested that NAPI could be moved into a separate repository
      and community managed separate to nexusformat. As we are keeping
      minimal maintenance, it was decided to keep it in its current
      location for now, but the situation would be reviewed. Separating
      it from the main nexusformat organisation would make it easier for
      other interested parties to maintain e.g. otherwise dropped
      formats/utilities/bindings as needed, they could currently fork
      the existing code and do this, but that may lead to confusion
      between "official" and "unofficial" bindings.

      WG mentioned that ORNL were looking at ways to improve the
      interaction of programs with HDF5 in a multi threaded environment.

      .. rubric:: Actions
         :name: Telco_20201208_actions

      -  Propose Code camp items on next TC agenda
      -  `Poll for code camp
         dates <https://doodle.com/poll/b2f8qbpu6sedeccm>`__

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20201208_next-meeting

      Proposed for mid - end January 2021
      (`poll <https://doodle.com/poll/vtrvxxaz25d9k96t>`__)
