==============
Telco 20241209
==============

Date
----

Monday, 9th Dec, 15:00 UTC

Connect
-------

-  ZOOM VC link:
   https://hu-berlin.zoom.us/j/65272091306?pwd=WUxEa0ZtVXp1ZHlsSlVjU2lmclMrQT09
-  Meeting ID: 652 7209 1306
-  Passcode: nexus

Agenda
------

-  domain names
-  canSAS?
-  PRs
   `1517 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1517>`__
   `1518 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1518>`__
   `1407 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1407>`__
   `1486 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1486>`__
   `1408 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1408>`__
   `1410 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1410>`__
   `1414 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1414>`__
   `1419 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1419>`__
   `1413 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1413>`__
   `1415 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1415>`__
   `1420 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1420>`__
   `1424 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1424>`__

Present
-------

SB, AB, RB, HB, FS, WdN, BB, RO, BW, PC + Lukas P., Markus K., Ron H.,
Rubel M. (FAIRmat)

Minutes
-------

-  | domain names
   | AB: We have been contacted from China that our domain.cn
   | HB: we should say no to that
   | AB: will ask LBL leagal team

-  | PRs
   | `1517 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1517>`__
   | AB: PC has reviewed and approved it, so we can merge it in
   | `1518 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1518>`__
   | AB: HB has approved,
   | RO: spelling mistakes
   | AB: will resolve remaining comments, but no further requests.
   | `1407 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1407>`__
   | AB: the idea of the possibility for opening up enumerations is also
     relevant here
   | HB: note that enum items should be intorduced with documentation
   | AB: this has been approved in its current form, so let us do the
     documentation improvmenet in a separate step
   | RO: we need both option of closed and open enumerations
   | AB: subclassing is approved, but Lukas reported that it may not
     solve the problem without supporting multiple inheritance
   | BW: a new vote is not necessary to revoke the request for
     subclassing, as it has just turned out that the implementation of
     the previous vote would result in a contradiction.
   | AB: Let us accept it and release this requieremnt of using
     subclasses
   | AB: NXlens_em must be approved itself before we use it in other
     approved definitions
   | LP: It is fine to take it to a spearate PR
   | AB: with these decisions, we can merge this in
   | `1486 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1486>`__
   | RO: documenttaion is too long and could be separated out
   | AB: rendering hides the long doc and shows it collapesd
   | RO: that looks good
   | AB: let us remove type_oter also from here (assuming open
     enumerations will be supported)
   | AB: after all conversations have been resolved, let us start an
     online vote.
   | `1507 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1507>`__
   | SB: FIELDNAME_xxx require the presence of a field with name
     FIELDNAME
   | AB: clarification could be added
   | AB: is this need a vote? or ot os just an implementatin of the
     convention?
   | Telco participants decided that we do not need a vote here
   | AB: let people not being on telco respond that, otherwise let merge
     it.
   | RM: do we realy want to support nested groups?
   | SB: yes, it might read confusing, but indeed the proposal supports
     nested groups for all those listed
   | `1408 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/1408>`__
   | AB: fields from NXmx are pulled to the base class now, so it can be
     resued by others, too.
   | AB: copied extra documentation (to energy from wavelength) could be
     replaced by simple reference.
   | LP: Yes, it is OK
   | PC: Are previous/next deivces needed?
   | SB: Yes, we use them to store information on optical setups where
     \*-like relations are between optical devices
   | AB: let us bring this to a vote
   | AB: Additionally to them, there are lots of new fields, like
     fluence, etc. Shall we do not put them to AppDefs
   | BW: We should collect them in the base class and let AppDefs select
     whiuch one they need in a specific case
   | HB: Ben is right. For a controlled vocabulary, it is good to
     collect faivoured names into base classes. Incident is needed to
     understand why and how we need new defs
   | LP: +1
   | AB: what about ultra-short pulse related charscteristics? Can we
     have then by using sbclassing
   | LP: Yes, it is a reasonable choice
   | MK: beam is not at all a straght line in EM
   | AB: might not be neede to do subclassing
   | WdN: are the units too restrictive
   | SB: only examples are provided here
   | RO: In neutron scattering, the incident polarisation, we use in %
     rather.
   | BW: The concept defines electro-magnatic polarisation
   | AB: let us go back to use the units NX_ANY fr incident and final
     polarisation.
   | All accepted that.
   | SB: Note that these are different concepts, so we may want to call
     them differently
   | AB: In fact, we should have clear concepts
   | BW: incident_polarisation_stokes is indeed defined in NXbeam
   | AB: let us bring it to a vote with the comments
