=================
Telco 20190424
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20190424
         :name: telco-20190424
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20190424_date

      Wednesday, 24 April, 15:00 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20190424_agenda

      -  Documentation glitch:
         https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/648
      -  Sparse containers:
         https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/653
      -  Per-image pixel mask:
         https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/651
      -  Underload for NXdetector:
         https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/656
      -  New teleconferencing system

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20190424_minutes

      Present: BW, MK, AB, PJ, HB, TM

      .. rubric:: Documentation glitch
         :name: documentation-glitch

      All agree that proposal by AS is sensible and should be accepted.
      To be implemented by PJ.

      .. rubric:: Sparse containers
         :name: sparse-containers

      This is a bit special in that it is describing how a dataset is
      represented, while NeXus tends to concentrate on the physical
      meaning of datasets. It is, however, similar to NXlog and
      NXevent_data in this respect and so should definitely be
      considered. While we think it is probably best dealt with in HDF5,
      rather than NeXus, the HDF group need money for development and a
      NeXus solution might be better than the customised h5py code
      pointed to in the github issue. This idea should be further
      developed into a proposal for the NIAC.

      .. rubric:: Per-image pixel mask
         :name: per-image-pixel-mask

      All agree on the value of allowing multiple image masks for
      various use cases. BW would prefer using systematic naming in
      order to allow many masks, suggesting 'pixel_mask_N    (where N is
      an integer) for all masks beyond the first, which retains the
      pixel_mask name. AB promised to work on the issue.

      .. rubric:: Underload for NXdetector
         :name: underload-for-nxdetector

      All agree it is a reasonable addition. AB to do the
      implementation.

      .. rubric:: New teleconferencing system
         :name: new-teleconferencing-system

      PJ is worried that Google Hangouts might disappear and suggests we
      consider alternative teleconferencing systems. Suggestions
      include:

      -  BlueJeans: https://www.bluejeans.com/
      -  Zoom: https://zoom.us/
      -  Skype: https://www.skype.com The issue should be discussed at
         the next telco.

      .. rubric:: Other Business
         :name: Telco_20190424_other-business

      AB points out that the ALS is making a concerted effort (through
      Alexandr Hexemer) to implement NeXus at beamlines. There is
      interest in using NeXus/XML in order to avoid putting binary files
      into a database. PJ suggests considering NeXus/JSON, which is
      already being used by Dectris.

      .. rubric:: Next Telco
         :name: Telco_20190424_next-telco

      -  Will aim for last week of May or first week of June.
      -  HB prefers not Thursday ot Friday.
      -  MK will not attend.
