=================
Telco 20170322
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20170322
         :name: telco-20170322
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20170322_date

      Wednesday, 22 March, 16:30 CET (+0100)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20170322_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  LCLS topics: event alignment and ragged data
      -  `definitions issue
         524 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/524>`__
         - `already resolved by merge of PR
         527 <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/527>`__
      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20170322_minutes

      Present: David A Schneider (LCLS), Aaron, Andreas, HJB, MK, TSR
      (until 17:15), PJ

      .. rubric:: LCLS Topics
         :name: lcls-topics

      This was an interesting and longer discussion about the use of
      NeXus, HDF5 and its special features, and the design of a data
      collection system. The current protype of the LCLS system uses
      compound types and VLEN dataset. It relies on SWMR to communicate
      progress of the experiment to data consumers. Since NeXus does not
      use compound type and VLEN only for strings (and that is painful),
      they anticipate some problems for efficiency and latency when
      moving to an all-NeXus way of working. Message brokers were
      brought into the discussion, that follow a more network-type
      dataflow with lower latency than what can be achieved through a
      filesystem. Apart from individual suggestions, like using
      NXcollection when sticking to compound types for data that end
      users are not interested in, no final conclusion was reached at
      17:15.

      .. rubric:: Github issue
         :name: Telco_20170322_github-issue

      Was completed already, recorded here for reference.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20170322_next-meeting

      `Telco 20170405 <Telco_20170405.html>`__
