=================
Telco 20210120
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20210120
         :name: telco-20210120
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20210120_date

      Wednesday, 20th January, 14:00 UTC

      .. rubric:: Connect
         :name: Telco_20210120_connect

      -  ZOOM VC link:
         https://ukri.zoom.us/j/94744239709pwd=WE9qakVzQkZzV29KTjV4WmV0SEhwQT09
      -  Meeting ID: 947 4423 9709
      -  Password: 540966
      -  Dial in number details: https://ukri.zoom.us/u/abmDsHyAE5
      -  Test connection: https://ukri.zoom.us/test

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20210120_agenda

      -  Welcome new members
      -  Review previous meeting minutes and actions: `December
         Telco <Telco_20201208.md>`__
      -  Discuss `upcoming code
         camp <https://lists.nexusformat.org/pipermail/nexus-committee/2020/001044.html>`__
         format and `date <https://doodle.com/poll/b2f8qbpu6sedeccm>`__
      -  Issues on Github labelled with "telco"

         -  `definitions <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atelco>`__
         -  `code <https://github.com/nexusformat/code/issuesq=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Atelco>`__

      .. rubric:: Present
         :name: Telco_20210120_present

      BC, FA, HB, MK, RB, HG, BW, PJ, SB, PC, RO, SC, MO, WG

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20210120_minutes

      The committee welcomed BC, who gave a brief overview of NeXus
      usage at LANL. Their current system is linux based and using an
      old version of NAPI to write HDF4. There are plans to update this
      at a future time.

      PJ had been working with HG on the generation of html anchors and
      references to link to an ontology, see `persistent identifiers
      (PIDs) <https://github.com/nexusformat/NIAC/issues/73>`__. They
      have also been talking to the `ExPaNDS
      project <https://expands.eu/>`__ about how this might be used. PJ
      demonstrated how a table of anchors was now generated and
      displayed at the end of each class, there is not currently a table
      showing all of these in one place, but it could be added. HG
      suggested that references could be used in packages such as iCAT.
      HB would love to see a keyword and context document, mapping CIF
      to NeXus terms, that made use of these links. HG commented that
      terms would need an associated PID to maintain a unique context
      and not fix usage to any particular class link. It was agreed that
      the current work was complete enough to be merged, but PIDs would
      be looked at next - maybe some could be created, registered, and
      linked to anchors. Using
      `ePICs <https://www.pidconsortium.net/>`__ was suggested, see also
      `here <http://dtr-test.pidconsortium.eu/#urls/intro.html>`__. RO
      suggested that this may be something that could be linked with the
      `Research Data
      Alliance <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Research_Data_Alliance>`__.

      The upcoming code camp was discussed next. Best dates from the
      `Doodle poll <https://doodle.com/poll/b2f8qbpu6sedeccm>`__ look to
      be 22 March or sometime April, we will discuss next meeting after
      dates for a few other potentialy clashing events will be known
      then. Last time this event was held a rolling set of VCs was
      arranged. FA suggested that we may be able to use Guest accounts
      on the STFC Microsoft Teams instance, he is investigating this for
      another meeting and will report back. The problem with just ZOOM
      is that chats are not persistent. Other options could be:

      -  Use Github discussions on nexusformat for persistent chats,
         google docs for a progress spreadsheet, plus zoom (or other vc)
         with breakout rooms for meeting wwhen required
      -  Use `zoom
         channels <https://support.zoom.us/hc/en-us/articles/200912909-Creating-and-using-channels>`__
         for chat as these are persistent, plus ZOOM for meetings.
      -  If we felt ambitious, set up a `Discourse
         instance <https://www.discourse.org/about>`__

      It was agreed that PJ should now proceed with the change from
      ``master`` to ``main`` as the default git branch on our
      repositories

      .. rubric:: Actions
         :name: Telco_20210120_actions

      FA to report back on using MS Teams for code camp

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20210120_next-meeting

      End of February - `Doodle
      poll <https://doodle.com/poll/snhd4zdrrmvh8vgy>`__
