=================
Telco 20180619
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20180619
         :name: telco-20180619
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20180619_date

      Tuesday, 19 June, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20180619_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  Tool to convert NXpdb to PDB/CIF
      -  Preparations for NIAC this year
      -  Updates on NeXus for pixelated STEM
      -  Github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github
         label)

         -  `definitions PRs & issues marked as
            'telco' <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/labels/telco>`__

      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20180619_minutes

      Present: AB, HJB, TSR

      .. rubric:: NXpdb tools
         :name: nxpdb-tools

      PDB to NeXus works, going back still needs some effort. Done in
      CBFlib.

      .. rubric:: NIAC
         :name: Telco_20180619_niac

      HJB offered to host the meetings in his living room.

      There is a bit of a backlog of tasks to be worked on in NeXu
      (documentation and defintions). Code camps in the traditional
      sequence before a NIAC meeting end up preparing new things for the
      NIAC to decide. The small congregation today thought that having
      the NIAC meeting after NOBUGS and the code camp following that
      would put some more focus on implementing existing NIAC decisions.

      TSR is in contact with SIC and will send out a proposal to the
      nexus committee mailing list, before fully publishing the event.

      .. rubric:: pixelated STEM
         :name: Telco_20180619_pixelated-stem

      TSR still needs to update the proposal with NXtransformations
      instead of the NXpositioners. If someone wants to volunteer to do
      that earlier, they are welcome to.

      .. rubric:: Github issue
         :name: Telco_20180619_github-issue

      We're still benefitting from the recent release and there are no
      marked issues to discuss.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20180619_next-meeting

      There are not many items on the telco agendas at the moment, other
      than preparing the NIAC. Summer is there with holiday so we skip
      forward a few weeks before we have the next meeting:

      `Telco 20180814 <Telco_20180814.html>`__
