=================
Telco 20170426
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20170426
         :name: telco-20170426
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20170426_date

      Wednesday, 26 April, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20170426_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  Adding PDB tags to NeXus for NXmx (as per Lund HDRMX meeting)
      -  Cspad to NeXus: NXdetector_module
      -  Github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (use telco github
         label)

         -  `definitions PRs & issues marked as
            "telco" <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/labels/telco>`__

      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20170426_minutes

      Present: HJB, AB, MK, TSR

      .. rubric:: PDB
         :name: Telco_20170426_pdb

      Herbert will discuss at the ACA meeting 26th May (and the IUCr
      meeting in India). If there could be some idea of how we want to
      implement that, that would be good. Assigned
      https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/553 to PJ,
      hoping he can have a look.

      .. rubric:: CSPAD
         :name: Telco_20170426_cspad

      Some changes are required and at the moment some software error
      prevents progress. Should have a proposal ready in three weeks for
      the next meeting. Ideally we would have two example files. A
      "minimal change" and a "beautiful" version, both with output of
      cnxvalidate. For comparison we"d also look at Eiger files and runs
      of cnxvalidate with edited NXDL.

      .. rubric:: Github issues
         :name: Telco_20170426_github-issues

      https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/562 deferred.

      https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/558 approved, but
      not yet merged.

      https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/issues/559 assigned to
      MK to add ub_matrix

      .. rubric:: AOB
         :name: Telco_20170426_aob

      NXcontainer discussion in github: We wait for DLS to decide what
      to do with their proposal. If they drop it, someone else might
      want to propose that instead.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20170426_next-meeting

      `Telco 20170517 <Telco_20170517.html>`__
