=================
Telco 20171004
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20171004
         :name: telco-20171004
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20171004_date

      Wednesday, 4 October, 16:30 CEST (+0200)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20171004_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  Nested Detector Modules
      -  Timestamped Events
      -  `ICALEPCS HDF5
         Workshop <https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/12/>`__
      -  Code Camp 2017
      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20171004_minutes

      Present: AB, HJB, MB, EW, TSR

      .. rubric:: Nested Detector Modules
         :name: nested-detector-modules

      AB asked about correct and best practise for having a hierarchy of
      NXdetector_modules. The current definition would expect them to be
      flat in the NXdetector and have the hierarchy represented in the
      geometry chain. While his current example file can be processed by
      DIALS, Aaron was happy to explore following the convention more.
      At the code camp we would aim to come to a conclusion whether we
      need to improve the base classes to make encoding the
      relationships tidier.

      .. rubric:: Timestamped Events
         :name: timestamped-events

      There have been some exchanges of example files recently, but we
      still don't have clear documentation on how to align events in
      time. Again, we will have time and expertise at the code camp for
      this.

      .. rubric:: ICALEPCS HDF5 Workshop
         :name: icalepcs-hdf5-workshop

      No issues were put forward to be raised there by the people
      attending that (EW & TSR).

      .. rubric:: Code Camp
         :name: Telco_20171004_code-camp

      Items for the agenda are collected on the wiki pages. MB has
      already update the list with the items above. EW cannot attend,
      but will have at least 10 people attending as of today.

      .. rubric:: Next Meeting
         :name: Telco_20171004_next-meeting

      Will be from the Code Camp, summarising the output of that (if
      any): `Telco 20171026 <Telco_20171026.html>`__
