=================
Telco 20160628
=================

.. container:: content

   .. container:: page

      .. rubric:: Telco 20160628
         :name: telco-20160628
         :class: page-title

      .. rubric:: Date
         :name: Telco_20160628_date

      Tuesday, 28th June, 16:30 Central European Summer Time
      (Copenhagen)

      Hangout Link:
      https://plus.google.com/hangouts/_/j72qwlvegiojjpt3a36pfhow5ua

      .. rubric:: Agenda
         :name: Telco_20160628_agenda

      -  Welcome and agree Agenda
      -  github issue of the day - suggestions welcome (there is a
         github label now)

         -  `PR #478 (NXspecdata as contributed
            definition) <https://github.com/nexusformat/definitions/pull/478>`__

      -  items for NIAC (or code camp) to prepare
      -  Next meeting
      -  AOB

         -  look at `new
            text <https://manual.nexusformat.org/classes/index.html>`__
            in the manual
         -  phrase search the manual: `signal
            data <https://duckduckgo.com/q=%22signal+data%22+site%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fdownload.nexusformat.org%2Fdoc%2Fhtml&t=ffsb&ia=web>`__:
            https://duckduckgo.com/q=%22signal+data%22+site%3Ahttp%3A%2F%2Fdownload.nexusformat.org%2Fdoc%2Fhtml&t=ffsb&ia=web

      .. rubric:: Minutes
         :name: Telco_20160628_minutes

      Present: HJB, PJ, AB (first 10 min), TSR

      .. rubric:: NXspecdata
         :name: nxspecdata

      The idea is that eventually SPEC may write NeXus. Most fields are
      mappings of what core macros write out. The usage of the files
      isn   t quite in alignment with NeXus traditions, for example with
      respect to the relationships between files and NXentries. And
      there are other open comments, but contributed definitions can be
      work in progress. Merged

      .. rubric:: NIAC items
         :name: Telco_20160628_niac-items

      Recorded here: https://github.com/nexusformat/NIAC/issues

      .. rubric:: Next Telco
         :name: Telco_20160628_next-telco

      `Telco 20160712 <Telco_20160712.html>`__

      .. rubric:: AOB
         :name: Telco_20160628_aob

      Herbert mentions this web site on HDR MX http://hdrmx.medsbio.org/

      PJ brings the next wording on the base classes to our attention.
      We all agree, but find actually developing a base class has
      implications on the technical infrastructure. Ticket in NIAC
      opened. Also: The search on the manual pages is not as useful as
      it could be.
